FEDERAL  RESERVE  press release

For  Use at  4:30  p.m. 

November  20,  1992

The Federal  Reserve Board  and the  Federal  Open  Market

Committee today  released the  attached  record  of  policy actions

taken  by the Federal  Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

October  6. 1992.

The  record  for each meeting  of the  Committee  is made

available  a few days after  the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published  in the Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the information that was  available  to  the

Committee  at the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF  POLICY ACTIONS OF  THE

FEDERAL OPEN  MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting  Held  on  October  6. 1992

The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting suggested  that

economic  activity was  expanding at  a subdued  pace.  Domestic  final

sales  appeared to  have  picked  up  in  the  third  quarter,  led  by  an

increase  in  consumer spending  and another  sharp  gain  in  business

purchases  of office  and  computing equipment,  but  demand  had  remained

sluggish  in  most other  sectors  of the  economy.  The  limited  growth  in

overall  demand was  being met  in  part  through higher  imports,  and  as  a

consequence,  industrial  production and  employment  had  been  weak.

Recent  data  on  wages  and prices  continued  to  suggest  that  inflation

was  slowing.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  fell  somewhat  further in

September,  reflecting  a drop  in government  jobs  associated  with the

end  of  a federally funded  summer jobs  program.  Employment  in the

private  sector  was up  in  September,  as  new hiring in  the  services

industry more than  offset job  losses  in manufacturing and

construction;  employment  in other  industries  was  little  changed after

a sizable  decline in August.  The  civilian unemployment  rate  edged

down to  7.5  percent in September  when the  labor  force  registered

another  decrease.

After  a considerable gain in July,  industrial  production

declined appreciably in  August,  and available  information  suggested

further weakness  in September.  The  decline in  industrial  output  since

July  partly  reflected the  disruptive  effects  of  Hurricane Andrew on

oil  and  gas  production and  of  a labor  strike  on  the manufacture of

automobiles  and parts.  However,  output  of  a broad  range  of other

goods  also  was  down.  One area  of  continuing strength was  the

production of business  equipment, notably  office  and  computing

equipment.  The  utilization  of total  industrial  capacity fell  on

balance  over July  and August,  retracing a portion of  the increase that

occurred  over the  first  half of the year.

Real  personal consumption expenditures  were  little  changed

in August  after  increasing appreciably in the  two previous  months;  for

July  and August  combined,  spending was moderately higher than in the

second  quarter.  In August,  outlays  for  services  continued to  rise,

while expenditures  for most major  categories  of  goods  declined.

Housing  starts  climbed in August, with starts  of  single-family homes

reaching their highest  level  since March.  By  contrast,  permit

issuance  and  sales  of  new and  existing homes  edged  lower in  August.

Shipments  of nondefense  capital goods  slowed  considerably in

July and  August, retracing much of the  sharp  gain recorded in June.

Shipments  of office  and  computing equipment  slackened on  balance over

the  two months:  however,  after adjusting  for  ongoing rapid  declines in

prices,  the  underlying upward trend  in demand for  such  equipment

remained  robust.  Recent  data on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense

capital  goods  suggested that  business outlays  for  durable equipment,

particularly for  items  other than computers,  would  grow more slowly

in  coming months.  Outlays  for  nonresidential  construction contracted

again  in August, with steep  decreases  occurring for  commercial and

industrial  structures.  Data on  contracts continued  to  indicate that

spending  for new construction would  remain sluggish  over the months

ahead.

Total business  inventories  rose  somewhat  further in July

following  a large  increase in June.  In  manufacturing, inventory

stocks were little  changed over June and  July but  were up  sharply in

August  as  factory shipments  of  goods  slowed;  as  a result, the  ratio  of

inventories to  shipments  for all  manufacturing rebounded  to  the middle

of  the  range  that  had  prevailed  over  the previous  year.  At  the

wholesale  level,  inventories  were  trimmed  a little  in July  after  a

sizable  rise  in  June,  and the  stocks-to-shipments  ratio  remained

relatively  high.  Retail  trade inventories  expanded  at  a considerable

pace  in  July, but  a rebound  in sales  lowered the  inventory-to-sales

ratio  somewhat  at  most types  of stores.

The nominal  U.S.  merchandise trade deficit  widened somewhat

in  July  from its  average  rate in the  second  quarter.  Imports,

particularly of  capital  goods  and  consumer  goods,  remained on  the

fairly  strong upward path  evident  during the  first  half  of the year.

Exports  increased  by a smaller amount  in July;  exports  of agricultural

products  rose noticeably, but  exports  of nonagricultural  goods  were

about  unchanged from the pace of the  previous three  quarters.  Recent

indicators  of economic  activity  in the  major foreign industrial

countries  suggested a continuation of sluggish  growth  on average  in

those  countries.

Producer  prices  of finished  goods  edged  up in  August  in

association  with a rebound  in  prices  of fresh  fruits and  vegetables.

Abstracting from the volatile food  and  energy components,  the  increase

in  prices  of  other finished  goods  over the  twelve months  ended  in

August  was  considerably  smaller than the  rise over  the  previous

twelve-month period.  At the consumer  level,  prices  of nonfood, non-

energy  items  registered another modest  increase,  and  the  twelve-month

change  in this  measure also was  down  substantially  from a year

earlier.  In  September, a drop in  the  average hourly earnings  of

production or nonsupervisory workers  retraced part  of  a sizable rise

in August.  Over the twelve months  ended in  September, these earnings

grew  at  a significantly  slower rate  than  in  the  preceding twelve-month

period.

At  its  meeting  on August  18,  the  Committee  adopted a

directive that  called  for maintaining the  existing degree  of pressure

on  reserve  positions  and that  included a bias toward possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  the directive  indicated

that  in  the  context of the  Committee's  long-run objectives for  price

stability  and sustainable  economic  growth, and  giving  careful

consideration to  economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,

slightly  greater  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable or  slightly

lesser  reserve restraint  would be  acceptable during  the  intermeeting

period.  The  contemplated  reserve  conditions were  expected to  be

consistent  with  growth in M2  and M3  at  annual rates  of about  2 percent

and  1/2  percent  respectively over the  six-month period  from June

through December.

Open market  operations during the  intermeeting period were

directed  initially toward maintaining the  existing  degree of pressure

on reserve  positions.  In  early  September,  operations were  adjusted to

implement  some easing in reserve pressures.  This  action was taken in

response to  incoming information that  suggested  unexpected

sluggishness  in economic  activity  and  a smaller-than-anticipated

pickup in the  growth  of the broad  monetary aggregates.  Adjustment

plus  seasonal  borrowing  tended to  run  a little  above expected levels

during the intermeeting  interval,  reflecting in part  reserve  short-

falls  that  produced  sharp  increases  in borrowing at  the  end  of two

reserve maintenance periods.  The  reserve  shortfalls along with

quarter-end  pressures contributed  to a somewhat  higher federal  funds

rate  than had been expected following the monetary easing action.

Other  short-term interest  rates  also  declined  somewhat,

while  longer-term  rates were  about  unchanged  since  the  Committee

meeting  on August  18.  Short-term debt markets  reacted to  the

Committee's  easing  action in  early September  and  subsequently to

growing expectations  of further  System easing in  the  context  of

continued  indications of  a sluggish economic  expansion.  Yields  on

intermediate-term  securities  also  fell.  However,  rates  on  long-term

obligations  were little  changed on balance;  the  System's  policy easing

and  generally weak  economic  data  tended to  reduce  bond  yields, but

long-term  debt markets  also  appeared to  reflect  growing  concerns  about

the fiscal  outlook and increased  uncertainty  stemming in part  from

volatility  in the foreign  exchange markets  and policy developments

abroad.

In foreign exchange markets,  the  trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in terms  of the  other G-10 currencies  fluctuated widely  over

the  intermeeting period but  ended  somewhat  higher on balance.  The

dollar weakened  considerably  early in the period  on  disappointing

reports  about the U.S.  economy and  related  expectations  of  Federal

Reserve easing.  In mid-September, the  dollar moved  sharply higher  as

turmoil  in  European currency markets prompted  some  safe-haven buying

of dollars  and resulted  in  interest  rate  reductions  in  Germany.  More

recently, reduced  tensions within the European Monetary System and

heightened  expectations of  further easing by the  Federal Reserve

induced  renewed  declines  in the  dollar.

Expansion  of M2  and M3  resumed  in August,  though at  fairly

slow  rates,  and  limited growth  appeared to  have continued  in

September.  Through  September, both  aggregates  were estimated  to have

grown  at  rates  somewhat below the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established

by the  Committee for the  year.  The  pickup in the  broad  aggregates

seemed to  reflect the  cumulative effects  on demand  deposits  and  liquid

retail  deposits of  declines in market  interest  rates  since mid-year

and  a related drop  in  opportunity costs.  Currency  growth  strengthened

further  in  August  and  September,  evidently owing in  part to  further

foreign  demand.  Bank credit  growth  also picked up  in  both months  in

conjunction with an  upturn in bank loans.

The staff projection prepared for this meeting indicated

that  economic  activity  would expand  at  a slow pace  in  the  current

quarter  and  that  growth would pick up  gradually  in  1993  to  a rate that

would  remain quite  moderate by  past cyclical  standards.  The declines

that  had  occurred in interest  rates  were expected to boost housing

activity to  some extent,  particularly in the  single-family  sector.

Gains  in expenditures  for  equipment were projected  to  be  large  enough

to  raise business  fixed  investment despite sluggish  spending for

nonresidential construction.  As  employment  growth was  restored and

further  improvements  in household balance  sheets  were achieved,

consumer  spending would  strengthen.  The projection  pointed to  some

decline  in  federal  government purchases,  reflecting further  cutbacks

in  defense  expenditures, and weak  spending by  state and  local

governments.  The persisting slack in resource  utilization in this

forecast  was projected to be  associated with additional progress  in

reducing inflation.

In the  Committee discussion of  current  and  prospective

economic  developments, many of the members  expressed disappointment

and  concern about  the sluggish pace  of the expansion, and a number

commented  that the  softening in  several  recent business  indicators

could portend quite  slow economic  growth  over the months  immediately

ahead.  Business  and  consumer sentiment was  relatively depressed and

seemed  to have worsened a bit  further  recently in some  parts  of the

country.  While  further  deterioration  in business  activity  culminating

in  an  economic  downturn  could  not  be  ruled  out,  some of the  very

latest  data  had  a slightly more  positive tone and the members

generally  continued to  view somewhat  stronger  economic  growth as  a

reasonable  prospect  for the year  ahead.  However,  no  important  sector

of  the  economy seemed poised  to  provide much  impetus  to  business

activity,  and the  timing of the acceleration from the presently

sluggish  advance  remained  uncertain.  Nonetheless, declines  over  the

third  quarter  in the  foreign  exchange  value  of the  dollar  and in

domestic  interest  rates--the latter  along the entire maturity

spectrum--suggested improved conditions  for  greater  expansion.

Recently,  these more  favorable  conditions  had been  reflected  in an

upturn  in money  growth  and  bank lending activity.  With regard to  the

outlook for  inflation, the  available  statistics  and anecdotal

information continued to indicate  appreciable progress toward  the

goal  of  price stability.

In the  course  of  the Committee's  discussion, the members

gave  a great  deal  of emphasis to the  uncertainties  that  surrounded  the

economic  outlook,  including potential  developments abroad.  Several

members  commented that  against the background  of  a relatively  weak

expansion, the  recent  volatility in  some  domestic financial  markets

and  in  the  foreign exchange market tended to  underscore  the  risks  of

developments that  could  have  adverse  effects  on the  economy.  Another

key  uncertainty  related to  the ongoing restructuring of business  firms

and of  business and  consumer balance  sheets.  Those  activities  were

continuing  to divert  financial  flows  from spending to  savings  or  debt

reduction,  and  prior experience provided  little  basis  for determining

when such  restructuring might  come  closer to  being  completed  and flows

of  funds  redirected  on balance into more  normal  spending channels.

Nonetheless,  the members drew considerable  encouragement from the

substantial  progress  that  already had  been made by  business  firms  in

improving  their  balance  sheets  and  by many lenders,  notably banking

institutions.  While some  banks  clearly were  continuing to  experience

financial  difficulties, many had  pared their problem assets  and

strengthened their capital  positions.  Moreover,  a growing  number  of

reports  suggested that  banks were intensifying their efforts to  find

creditworthy borrowers,  though when such efforts  might  become  more

general was  another  source of  uncertainty.

Consumer  spending  seemed  to  have been  reasonably well

maintained  in most  parts  of the  country,  including indications  of  some

growth  in  a number of  areas where  overall business  activity  appeared

to  be moving sideways  or  even edging  lower.  At  least  in some  parts  of

the  country, retailers were  expressing moderate  optimism with  regard

to their prospective  sales  during  the  upcoming holiday season.  Even

so,  very  cautious  consumer  attitudes,  associated especially with

concerns  about  employment  prospects,  seemed likely  to  restrain overall

growth  in consumer spending over the next  several months.  Indeed,

barring unanticipated economic developments  leading to  a major

strengthening in employment  opportunities,  continuing  efforts by many

households to  improve their financial  positions  could be expected  in

the  context  of  an already  low saving rate to  limit  the  contribution of

the  consumer  sector to  faster economic  growth for  some  considerable

period.

In their  comments about  developments  in  other key sectors  of

the  economy, members also  cited single-family housing construction as

a source of some  stimulus  in many  regions.  The manufacturing of

related building materials  had exhibited  a corresponding pickup

recently.  Other  construction  activity, notably that  of office

structures,  remained weak, but there  were  reports  of some  improvement

or  continuing growth  in the  construction  of  industrial  facilities  and

public  works  projects  in  some  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  energy

sector,  a firming of  gas  prices was  encouraging  somewhat  greater

production.  On balance,  there  was  little  current  evidence that

construction, other  than  in the  single-family sector,  would  provide

significant  impetus  to the  overall expansion in  the  year ahead.

Likewise,  flagging  demand was  curtailing  the  production  of  aircraft

and  inducing at  least  temporary cutbacks  in  auto  assemblies.  In

addition, the foreign trade  sector was  not  expected to  add

significantly  to demands  on the U.S.  economy despite the  decline in

the  foreign  exchange value  of the  dollar.  While  the  latter  had

fostered large  increases  in tourism from abroad  in a number  of  areas

and  some  domestic  producers  reportedly were  gaining market  share,

recessions  or weak expansion in major  foreign trading nations were

likely to  limit  the  growth  in  foreign demand for  U.S.  goods.

The  fiscal  outlook remained  uncertain.  The  large  federal

deficit  was  still  tending to preclude  the adoption  of spending  or  tax

reduction programs  that  would  increase  fiscal  stimulus,  but  some

members  suggested that  continued  sluggishness  in  the  economy might

well  overcome  current  inhibitions against  new initiatives.  In  any

event,  defense  spending was  on  a clear  downtrend and was  exerting an

adverse  effect on  overall  economic  activity in  many  parts  of the

country.  At  the state  and local  government  levels,  severe fiscal

problems  probably would  continue to  curb  spending and  force  many

jurisdictions to  raise  taxes  so  long as  a relatively weak economy

continued to  hold down  revenues.

With regard  to  the outlook for  inflation, the members were

encouraged  by the further  indications  of a disinflationary  trend in

prices  and  wages,  and  they  saw little  likelihood that  upward  pressures

on  prices  would emerge  over the  next  year or  two  even in  the  context

of  some  pickup  in  the  expansion  of economic  activity.  While  medical,

tuition,  and  some  other  costs were  rising  at  relatively rapid  rates,

members  cited widespread  examples  of very  strong competitive  pressures

in markets  for  goods,  including key agricultural  products,  and  ongoing

efforts  by  firms  to  cut  costs  in the  face of  steady or  even declining

prices  in  the markets  for  their products.  Nonetheless.  business

contacts  still  seemed to  anticipate rising inflation at  some  point

for  the  economy  generally if not  in their  own  industries,  and  long-

term  interest  rates  still  appeared to  embody higher  rates  of

inflation.

In the Committee's  discussion of policy  for the  intermeeting

period  ahead, the members generally  agreed that  current  uncertainties

made  an assessment  of the economic  outlook and the  determination of an

appropriate  course  for monetary policy particularly difficult.  While

the members'  preferences  for  policy implementation  ranged  from the

maintenance of unchanged  reserve  conditions  to  an immediate  easing

move,  a majority indicated that they could  support  a policy

prescription of maintaining unchanged  reserve  conditions for  the

present  while biasing the directive  strongly toward  possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.

Members who  favored an unchanged  policy stance  argued that

despite  the  softness  in  a number  of recent  economic  indicators they

could  see  no  currently persuasive evidence  of a cumulative  deteriora-

tion  in the  economy.  Moreover, earlier monetary policy easing actions

had  provided  a substantial  amount  of  stimulus to the economy that

would continue  to  exert  its effects  over time.  Real  short-term

interest  rates  were  at  very low levels,  and  intermediate-term rates

had  declined  considerably  since mid-year.  The  reductions  in  interest

rates  had  greatly  facilitated the  progress  already achieved  by

business  firms  and  households  in  restructuring their  debts  and

reducing their  debt  service burdens,  thereby strengthening  the

financial  underpinnings of  the  economy.  The  dollar  recently had been

subject  to  considerable volatility in  the  foreign exchange  markets,

and  there  was  some  risk that an  easing of monetary policy  at  this time

might  tend  to destabilize  it.  These members  concluded  that  the

present  stance  of monetary policy  continued to  reflect  an appropriate

balancing  of the need to  sustain progress  toward  price  stability while

encouraging an  acceptable  rate of economic  growth.

Members  who  favored  an  immediate  easing of policy  believed

that  the outlook for  the  economy and prices  argued  for  a policy move

at  this  time.  These  members acknowledged that a good deal  of

uncertainty surrounded  the  economic  outlook.  However,  there were  some

risks  that  an  already sluggish economy might  weaken  further.  In  the

circumstances,  a prompt  easing move would  be a desirable  and prudent

course, particularly in a situation where  they saw  a minimal  risk that

inflation would  be deflected  from its  downward trend.  In the  view of

some  of  these members, continued  expansion in the broad monetary

aggregates  at  rates below the  Committee's ranges  suggested that

financial  conditions were  not yet  conducive  to  a pickup  in  business

activity that was sufficiently robust  to  reduce margins  of

underutilized  resources.  An  easing in monetary policy  seemed to be

widely  anticipated in financial markets,  and  a failure to  take  action

at  this time might well  result  in an undesirable  backup  in market

interest  rates,  thus  further weakening the  outlook.

A majority of the members  noted that  they could  support  an

unchanged directive that  included a decided presumption  of some  easing

if  indications  of stronger  economic  activity  failed  to  emerge  or the

recent  firming in money  and  credit  flows  showed signs  of  ebbing

materially.  It  was  anticipated that  any decision  to  ease  reserve

conditions  during this  period would be  coordinated with the

consideration of a reduction in the discount  rate  by  the Board  of

Governors.  Two members  felt strongly that  a directive  calling for

unchanged  reserve  conditions  should also provide for an  unbiased

intermeeting instruction.  While  such  a directive would  not  rule  out

an  intermeeting  adjustment--in  either  direction--it would  require more

substantial  evidence of  changing or  unexpected economic  or  financial

information before a policy action was implemented.  Several members,

including  some who favored  an immediate  easing of  policy, expressed

some discomfort  about  the  extent  to which the  Committee might  be  seen

as  reacting to  individual pieces  of incoming data  rather than  to  an

accumulation  of  information and  analysis  regarding the  course of the

economy  and  prices.

In the course  of the discussion, members  commented that the

pickup  in the growth  of the broad monetary aggregates  in August  and

September was  a reassuring development,  even though the  rates  of

expansion were  still  quite  sluggish.  According to  a staff  analysis

prepared  for this  meeting, the  growth of both aggregates was likely to

remain quite  limited over the  balance of the year and  to  fall  somewhat

short  of the  lower bounds  of the  Committee's  ranges  for  1992  as  a

whole.  Despite the  lingering effects  of earlier  declines  in  short-

term interest  rates, the projected  expansion of M2  and  especially  that

of M3  would be  expected to  remain below the  growth  of  nominal GDP,  and

the  velocity of these monetary aggregates would  continue to  display

unusual  strength in  comparison with past  patterns.  The  persistence of

slow  growth in the broader aggregates  probably would  involve further

decreases  in  deposit  offering  rates  and  shifts  of  funds  to  higher

yielding alternatives  such  as  bond  and  stock mutual  funds,  with  little

effect  on  consumer  spending  or  overall  economic  activity.  The  members

nonetheless  recognized the  need to  assure  adequate  monetary  expansion

for  a growing  economy  and  noted that money growth  appreciably  below

current  expectations would  be  a matter of increasing concern.  A

differing view focused  on  the  growth of Ml  and reserves,  which had

been very  rapid  since  the  latter  months  of  1991.  In this  view,  the

outsized  growth  in  narrow measures  of  money was  indicative  of  a quite

stimulative  monetary policy, but  given  the  long  lags  that  were

involved, the  inflationary consequences of  such  growth,  if  allowed  to

continue, might  not  become evident  until much later,  perhaps not  until

well  into  1994.

At  the conclusion  of the  Committee's  discussion, a majority

of the members  indicated their  acceptance of a directive that called

for  maintaining the existing degree of  pressure on  reserve positions

and  an understanding that  there would  be  a marked bias  toward  possible

easing  during the intermeeting  period.  Two  of the  members  expressed  a

strong  preference for  a symmetric directive with regard to  possible

intermeeting policy adjustments, while two  others were  firmly

persuaded  of the desirability  of  an  immediate  increase  in  reserve

availability to  strengthen the  growth  of M2.  Accordingly, in  the

context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for  price  stability  and

sustainable  economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration  to

economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,  it was  decided  that

slightly  greater monetary restraint might be  acceptable  or  slightly

lesser monetary restraint  would be  acceptable during the  intermeeting

period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this  meeting were

expected to be  consistent  with  growth in  M2  and M3  at  annual  rates  of

about  2 and  1 percent  respectively over the  three-month period from

September through December.

At  the conclusion of  the meeting, the  following domestic

policy  directive was  issued to the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The information reviewed  at  this meeting suggests
that  economic  activity is  expanding  at  a subdued  pace.
Total  nonfarm payroll  employment declined  somewhat
further  in September,  but the  civilian unemployment
rate  edged down to  7.5 percent.  Industrial production
is estimated to  have declined  appreciably since  July.
Real  personal consumption  expenditures  appear to  have
risen moderately in the third  quarter.  Data  on housing
have  been mixed, but  on balance they  continue  to
suggest  a gradual  uptrend in housing expenditures.
Recent  data  on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense
capital  goods  indicate  slower  growth in outlays  for
business  equipment, while  expenditures  for nonresiden-
tial  construction have been weak.  The nominal U.S.
merchandise trade deficit widened  somewhat  in July from
its  average  rate  in  the  second quarter.  Incoming data
on wages  and  prices  suggest that inflation is  slowing.

Short-term interest  rates  have declined  somewhat,
while longer-term rates  are  about  unchanged  since the
Committee meeting on August  18.  In  foreign exchange
markets, the trade-weighted value  of the  dollar  in
terms of the other  G-10  currencies fluctuated widely
over  the intermeeting  period but  ended the period
higher  on balance.

Expansion  of M2  and  M3  resumed  in August,  though

at  fairly  slow rates,  and  limited  growth  appears  to
have  continued  in September.  Through September both
aggregates were estimated  to have  grown  at  rates
somewhat below the  lower ends  of the ranges  established
by  the  Committee  for the year.

The Federal Open  Market  Committee seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that will foster  price sta-
bility and  promote  sustainable  growth in  output.  In
furtherance of  these objectives, the Committee  at  its
meeting on June 30-July  1 reaffirmed the  ranges  it had
established  in February for  growth of M2  and  M3  of
2-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively,
measured from the fourth  quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth
quarter  of 1992.  The Committee  anticipated that
developments contributing to  unusual velocity increases
could persist  in the  second half of the  year.  The
monitoring range  for  growth of total domestic  non-
financial debt  also was maintained  at  4-1/2  to 8-1/2
percent  for the year.  For  1993,  the  Committee  on a
tentative basis  set the same  ranges  as  in  1992  for

-15-

growth  of  the  monetary aggregates  and debt  measured
from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to the  fourth  quarter
of  1993.  The  behavior  of  the  monetary aggregates  will
continue to  be  evaluated in  the  light  of progress
toward  price  level  stability,  movements  in  their
velocities,  and  developments  in  the  economy and
financial markets.

In  the  implementation  of  policy  for the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks to maintain  the  existing
degree  of pressure  on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price stability  and sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving careful  consideration to  economic,  financial.
and monetary  developments,  slightly  greater  reserve
restraint  might  or  slightly lesser reserve  restraint
would  be acceptable  in the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be
consistent  with  growth  of M2  and M3  over  the  period
from September through  December  at  annual  rates  of
about  2 and  1 percent,  respectively.

Votes  for this  action:  Chairman  Greenspan,

Vice Chairman Corrigan. Messrs. Angell, Hoenig,
Kelley, Mullins.  Ms.  Phillips.  and Mr.  Syron.

Votes against  this action:  Messrs.  Jordan,

LaWare.  Lindsey, and  Melzer.

Messrs.  Jordan and Lindsey preferred immediate action  by

the  Committee to  increase the  availability of bank  reserves

sufficiently to  achieve the  Committee's  pre-announced target  growth

for  M2  in  1992.  Such  reserve  provision would  likely be  associated

with  further declines  in  short-term market  interest  rates.  They

believed that this  policy action  by the  Committee  should be

accompanied by  an  announcement of  reductions  of the  upper  and  lower

limits  of the  range for M2  growth  in  1993.  They felt  that  it was

important  to make  clear  that  near-term action to  increase  M2  expansion

was  not  an  abandonment  of the  long-term  objective  of non-inflationary

monetary growth.

Messrs. LaWare  and Melzer  dissented  because they  did  not

want  to  bias the directive toward  possible easing during the

intermeeting period.  In their view,  a variety of indicators,

-16-

including the  level  of  short-term interest  rates  and  the  growth  of

reserves,  suggested  that monetary policy already was positioned  to

foster  an  expansion  in  economic  activity consistent with  the  economy's

long-run  potential.  Moreover,  further  easing  at  this time  would incur

a substantial  risk of  destabilizing the dollar  in the  foreign exchange

markets.  In  these  circumstances,  they  favored a steady  monetary

policy that was  not  disposed to  react  to near-term weakness  in

economic  data  and that  allowed more time  for the  effects of  earlier

easing  actions to be  felt  in the  economy.  Mr. Melzer  also  expressed

concern that  the progress  already made  toward achieving price

stability might be  jeopardized if very rapid  growth  in M1  were  to

continue.

FEDERAL RESERVE  press release

For  Use  at  4:30  p.m. 

August  21,  1992

The Federal Reserve Board  and  the  Federal Open Market

Committee today  released  the  attached  record  of  policy  actions

taken  by the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  at  its  meeting on

June  30-July 1, 1992.

The  record  for  each  meeting of  the  Committee  is  made

available  a few  days  after  the  next regularly  scheduled  meeting

and  subsequently  is  published  in the  Federal Reserve  Bulletin

and  the Board's  Annual  Report.  The  summary description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions  contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the  information  that  was  available  to  the

Committee at  the  time  of the  meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF  POLICY ACTIONS  OF THE

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held  on  June 30-July  1, 1992

The  information  reviewed  at  this meeting suggested  that

economic  activity was  expanding  at  a moderate pace.  Employment  and

industrial  output  had  continued to  rise,  but  a sizable increase  in  the

labor  force had  lifted  the  unemployment  rate  to  a cyclical high.

Increased  sales  and  production of  motor  vehicles were providing  a

boost  to  the  economy,  as  was  higher  spending for  capital equipment,

especially computers.  However,  non-auto  retail  sales  and  homebuying

had  slowed  since  earlier  in the  year,  and  the  latest data  indicated

some widening of  the merchandise  trade  deficit.  Incoming data  on

retail  prices  and  labor  costs  suggested that  inflation was  slowing.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  increased  for  a fourth

straight  month  in  May,  and  aggregate hours worked by  production  or

nonsupervisory workers  exceeded  the average for  the  first  quarter.

The  services  industry  recorded further  sizable job  gains  in  May, while

employment  in  retail  trade  fell  considerably  and had  changed  little  on

balance thus  far  this  year.  Hiring was  off  slightly  in  manufacturing,

but  further  increases  in  overtime hours  elevated  the  factory workweek

to  a little above  its  average  level  for  the first  half of  1990.  The

civilian unemployment  rate  rose  sharply in  May, to  7.5  percent,

reflecting a surge  in  the  number  of  job  seekers.  Substantial

increases  in  the labor  force  since  late  last  year had  returned the

labor-force  participation rate to  its  average  level  for  the  first  half

of  1990.

Industrial  production rose  appreciably further  in May,

partly  reflecting continued  recovery  in  motor vehicle  assemblies.

Also  contributing to  the rise were  large  increases  in the production

of  other  consumer  durables,  notably household  appliances  and

furniture,  and  of business  equipment.  The  recent  gains  in  production

had  raised the  utilization  of  total  industrial  capacity  considerably,

but  the  average  operating  rate remained  well  below its  July  1990  peak.

After  a surge  early in  the year,  growth  in  real personal

consumption  expenditures had  slowed  despite a strengthening  in the

demand  for motor  vehicles.  In April  and May,  spending  for  goods  other

than  motor  vehicles was  slightly  below the  average  level  for  the  first

quarter,  and  outlays  for  services  increased  only a little.  Purchases

of  new single-family homes  declined  in  May for  a fourth  straight

month.  Starts  of  single-family housing  units  rebounded in  May to  a

level  close  to  the first-quarter  pace,  while multifamily housing

starts  remained  depressed  in  reflection  of  historically high  vacancy

rates  for  such  housing.

Shipments  of  nondefense  capital goods  other  than  aircraft

over  April and  May  were somewhat  above  the first-quarter  level,

boosted  mainly  by  further  increases  for  office  and  computing

equipment.  Business  purchases of  motor  vehicles  also were  stronger.

Recent  data  on  orders  pointed  to  a further pickup  in  business  outlays

for  durable  equipment  over  coming months.  Outlays  for  nonresidential

structures  continued to  trend  lower  in  May, but  incoming  information

on  contracts  for new construction  suggested  that  nonresidential

building activity would decline more  slowly  in  the  months  ahead.

Although construction  of  office buildings  continued  to  plummet  in

response  to  the  substantial  overhang  of  vacant  office  space,  spending

-3-

for  other  nonresidential structures  had firmed  since the fourth

quarter.

Business  inventories  rose  slightly further  in  April.  Stocks

increased  relatively sharply at  the  retail  level,  but  about  half the

buildup was  at  automobile  dealerships, where the  rise  in  inventories

appeared  to  be  about  in  line with  a recent  pickup  in  sales  of  new

vehicles.  In manufacturing, inventories  continued to  decline;  with

factory  shipments  rising, the  ratio  of  stocks  to  shipments  was  at  its

lowest  level  in  more than  a decade.  At  wholesale establishments,

inventories  were  trimmed  substantially further  in  April.  However,

inventory-sales  ratios  remained near  the  high  end of  the  range  that

had  prevailed  over  the  past  several  years.

The  nominal  U.S.  merchandise trade  deficit widened  in  April

and  was  substantially above  its  average rate for  the  first  quarter.

The  value  of  exports  declined,  largely because of  a decline in  exports

of  aircraft.  The  value  of  imports  increased  further  in  April;  a rise

in  imports  of  capital  goods  more  than  offset  a small  decline in

imports  of  consumer  goods.  The  available data  on economic  activity in

the  major  foreign industrial  countries  in  the  second  quarter were

mixed.  In Germany and  Japan,  growth  during the  first  quarter had  been

boosted  by transitory  influences  that  appeared  to be  unwinding in  the

second  quarter.  By contrast,  a moderate  recovery in  economic  activity

was  continuing in  Canada, and  there were  some  indications  that

economic  recovery was  getting under way  in  the United Kingdom.

Producer  prices  of  finished  goods  rose more  rapidly  in  May;

sizable  increases  in  the  prices  of  energy and  other  goods  outweighed  a

further  decline  in  food  prices.  Apart  from anomalous  jumps  in  the

prices  of  a few  items,  however,  increases  in  prices  of  nonfood,  non-

energy  finished  goods  generally remained  modest.  Consumer  prices

posted  a small advance  in  May, despite  a relatively large  rise  in

energy costs.  Excluding food  and  energy items,  consumer  prices

increased more  slowly in  the  first  five months  of  this  year  than  in

1991.  Average hourly earnings  for  production or  nonsupervisory

workers  were  little  changed over  April and  May and  also had  risen more

slowly thus  far  this  year  than  in  1991.

At  its  meeting  on May  19,  the Committee  adopted a directive

that  called  for  maintaining the existing  degree of  pressure  on  reserve

positions  and that  did  not  include  a presumption  about  the likely

direction  of  any adjustments  to  policy  during the  intermeeting period.

Accordingly, the  directive  indicated  that  in  the  context  of  the

Committee's  long-run  objectives  for  price  stability  and  sustainable

economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration to  economic,

financial,  and  monetary developments,  slightly greater  or  slightly

lesser  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable  during the  intermeeting

period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated  under  this  directive were

expected to  be  consistent  with growth  of  M2  and  M3  at  annual rates  of

about  2-1/2  and  1-1/2  percent  respectively over  the  two-month  period

from April  through  June.

Open market  operations  during the  intermeeting period were

directed  toward maintaining the  existing degree  of  pressure  on  reserve

positions.  During the  period,  several technical  increases were  made

to  expected  levels  of  adjustment  plus  seasonal  borrowing to  reflect

the  rising demands  for  seasonal  credit.  Actual  levels  of  borrowing

averaged  about  $165  million  over  the  three  reserve maintenance  periods

completed  during  the  intermeeting  interval.  The  federal  funds  rate

remained  close to  3-3/4  percent.

Most  other  interest  rates  changed  little  on  balance  over  the

intermeeting period.  Rates  moved higher  in  the  days  following  the May

meeting  as  widespread market  expectations  of  a monetary  easing  action

were  not  realized.  Later  in  the  period,  however,  interest  rates  fell,

especially at  intermediate maturities,  as  markets  interpreted  incoming

data  on  the  economy  and  the monetary  aggregates  as  indicating  a

sluggish  recovery.  Broad  indexes  of  stock prices  declined  over  the

period  in  response  to  reductions  in  forecasts  of  corporate  earnings.

In  foreign  exchange  markets,  the trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in terms  of  the  other  G-10  currencies  declined  further  over  the

intermeeting period.  The  dollar  rose  initially in  response  to  data

pointing  to  a somewhat  stronger  economic  recovery  in  the United  States

but  subsequently more  than  retraced its  gains  as  less  positive

economic  data,  including a  larger-than-expected trade deficit,  were

reported.

M2  and  M3  changed  little  in  May  and  appeared  to have

contracted  in  June;  both  retail and  large-denomination  time  deposits

continued  to  run  off  rapidly.  Depository  institutions,  facing weak

loan  demand  and  intent  on  further  bolstering  capital  positions,  had

reduced  rates  on  time  deposits  fairly  aggressively earlier  in  the

year,  and  as  a  result  these  components  of  M2  and  M3  had  become  less

attractive  relative  to  alternative  investments  or  debt  repayment.  In

addition,  Ml  was unusually  weak in  June.  Through  June,  expansion  of

the  two  broad  aggregates  was  somewhat  below the  lower  ends  of  the

ranges  established by  the  Committee for  the  year.  Growth  of

nonfinancial  debt  was  estimated  to be  at  the  lower  end  of  the

Committee's  monitoring  range.  Borrowing  had  been  concentrated  in  the

capital  markets,  with beneficial  effects  in  reducing  debt  and  debt-

servicing burdens.

The staff  projection prepared  for  this  meeting pointed  to  a

modest  pickup  in  economic  growth  over  the  second  half  of  the year  and

-6-

to  some  further  acceleration  in  1993.  The  forecast  took  into  account

the  lagged  effects  on  aggregate demand  of  earlier  declines  in  interest

rates  and  the progress  that had  been  made  by households  and  businesses

in  strengthening their  balance  sheets.  Nonetheless,  financial  strains

were  expected  to  continue  to  prompt  the diversion  of  some  cash  flows

from business  and  consumer  spending,  though  the magnitude  of  such

adjustments  was  projected  to  lessen  over  time.  Partly  as  a

consequence, moderate  growth well  below that  experienced  during

typical  cyclical upswings  in  the  past  was  projected  in  consumer

spending and  in  business  investment  in  durable  equipment.  Economic

expansion  also  would be  restrained  by  further,  though  diminishing,

declines  in  business  spending on  nonresidential structures  before  a

projected  upturn  in  such  spending began  to materialize  in  the  second

half  of  next  year.  Moreover,  in  the  government  sector,  federal

purchases  of  goods  and  services were  forecast  to  decrease  over  the

projection  horizon,  largely  reflecting  cutbacks  in  defense  spending.

At  the  state and  local  government  levels,  continuing budget  problems

were  expected  to  result  in  a  small  decline  in  real  purchases  during

the  quarters  immediately  ahead and  in  only modest  growth  later.  A

persisting  though  decreasing margin  of slack  in  resource utilization

was  expected  to  be  associated  with  further  slowing  in  wage  and  price

inflation.

In  the  Committee's  discussion  of  economic  and  financial

developments  and the  outlook  for  the  economy,  the members  agreed  that

a sustained  expansion  at  a moderate pace  remained  the  most  reasonable

expectation  and  that  such  an  expansion was  likely to  be  associated

with  further  easing of  inflation.  They noted  that  considerable

progress  had been made  in  correcting major  structural  imbalances  and

financial  problems  in  various  sectors  of  the  economy  and that  business

and  consumer  confidence  had  improved appreciably  since  the  turn  of  the

year.  However,  the most  recent  information  suggested  some weakening

in  the  expansion,  and  a number  of  members  expressed  concern  about  the

apparent  absence  of  cumulating  or  self-reinforcing  improvement  in

overall  economic  activity.  Sluggish  growth  of  jobs  and  income,

ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen balance  sheets,  and  in  the  view of a

number  of  members  the weakness  in  broad  measures  of  money and  credit

suggested  that  the  risks  to  the  economy were  more  heavily weighted  to

the  downside.  Others  felt  that  the  expansion was  now more  firmly

entrenched and  that  the risks  were more  evenly balanced;  some  of  these

members  noted,  however,  that  given the  likely restrained  pace  of  the

expansion, a significant  shortfall  from their  current  projections

could  have  more worrisome  effects  than  the  limited  inflationary

pressures  that  might be  fostered  by  a somewhat  stronger-than-projected

economy.  With  regard  to  the  outlook  for  inflation, the members  were

encouraged  by  indications  of  moderating price and  labor  cost

pressures.  Most  believed  that  additional  progress  toward  price

stability  was  likely  over  the  next  several  quarters  in  the  context  of

some  persisting  slack in  labor  and  other  production  resources  and

after  an  extended  period  of  slow  growth  in  key measures  of  money.

In  keeping with  the  practice  at  meetings  when  the Committee

sets  its  long-run  ranges  for  the  money and  debt  aggregates,  the

members  of  the Committee  and  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank presidents not

currently  serving  as  members  provided  specific  projections  of  the

growth  in  nominal  and  real  GDP,  the  rate  of  unemployment,  and  the  rate

of  inflation  for  the years  1992  and  1993.  These projections  took

account  of  the monetary  growth  ranges  that  the Committee  reaffirmed  at

this  meeting for  1992  and  established  on  a tentative  basis  for  1993;

these  ranges  were  expected  to  be  consistent with  the  Committee's  goals

of promoting a  sustained  expansion  in  the  economy and  continued

progress  toward  price  stability.  The  projections  generally  portrayed

an  economy performing  in  line with  these  objectives--that  is,  with

expansion  at  a moderate  pace  over  the next  1-1/2  years  and  inflation

slowing gradually  further.  Forecasts  of  nominal  GDP  converged  on

growth  ranges  of  5-1/4  to  6 percent  for  1992  as  a whole  and  5-1/2  to

6-1/4  percent  for  1993.  With  regard  to  the  rate  of  expansion  in real

GDP,  the  projections  had  a central  tendency  of  2-1/4  to  2-3/4  percent

for  1992  and  of  2-3/4  to  3 percent  for  1993,  implying  a  gradual

acceleration  from the  pace  currently  estimated  for  the  first  half  of

this  year.  The  projected  strengthening  of  the  economy was  associated

with  some  decline  in the  rate  of  civilian unemployment to  a  consensus

range  of  6-1/2  to  7 percent  by  the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  Given  the

moderate  expansion  of  the  economy  and  the  still  relatively  elevated

level  of the  unemployment  rate,  the  rate  of  inflation,  as  measured  by

the  consumer  price  index, was  projected  to  move  somewhat  lower;  the

central  tendency  of  the  range  expected  for  1993  was  2-3/4  to  3-1/4

percent.

Members  observed  that  developments  relating  to  the  financial

condition  of  households  and  businesses were  likely to  continue  to  have

an  important  influence  on  economic  activity  over  the  quarters  ahead.

Widespread  efforts  to  strengthen  balance  sheets  along with conserva-

tive  lending policies  at  financial  intermediaries had  exerted  a

significantly  retarding effect  on  economic  activity  by  diverting cash

flows  from  consumer and  investment  expenditures  or  limiting  the  avail-

ability  of  financing for  current  spending.  However,  while  the  process

of  adjusting balance  sheets  was  still  incomplete  and  was  still

restraining  business  and  consumer  spending,  the  combination  of  greatly

reduced  interest  rates  and  strengthened  balance  sheets  pointed  to

subsiding constraints  on  expenditures  from financial  factors.  At  the

same time,  lending  institutions  now appeared  to  be  in  a better

position  to  accommodate  borrowers.  Indeed,  anecdotal  reports  from

several  parts  of the  country indicated  that many  banking institutions

were  intensifying  their  efforts  to  make  loans,  though  loan  demand

remained  quite  limited.  Members  also  observed that  corporate  cash

flows  and  profits were much  improved.

In  their  review of  economic  conditions  and  business  and

consumer  attitudes  in  different  regions,  members  reported  that  gradual

expansion  characterized  most  parts  of  the  nation, though they  cited

some  significant exceptions  and  also  noted that  on  the whole recent

indicators  pointed to  less  strength than  early  in the year.  Business

and  consumer  sentiment, while  considerably  improved  since  late  last

year,  nonetheless  remained  quite  cautious  and  seemed  vulnerable to

adverse developments.  Consumers were  still  very  concerned  about

employment  opportunities,  while business  executives were  reluctant  to

make  investment  commitments  or  to  build  inventories  in  the  absence  of

firmer  indications  of  a significant  pickup  in  demand.

With  regard  to  developments  in  major  sectors  of  the  economy,

members  generally viewed  some pickup  in  consumer  spending  from its

recently  sluggish pace  as  a likely  development that  in  turn would

provide  ongoing support  to  the  expansion.  An  essential  element  in

sustaining consumer  expenditures,  and  thus  the  economy more  generally,

would be  the  growth  in  job  opportunities  and  personal  incomes.  While

heavy  debt-service  burdens  and  reduced  interest  incomes,  among  other

factors,  continued  to  curb  the  ability or  willingness  of  many

consumers  to  increase their  spending,  some  tentative  indications  of  a

firming trend  in  such  spending  could  be  drawn  from the  signs  of

reviving consumer  confidence  and  anecdotal  reports  suggesting  that

-10-

consumer  spending was  growing  at  least modestly  in  many  areas.  In

particular,  demands  for motor  vehicles had  strengthened,  and the

related  step-up  in  the  production  of  automotive  products had  accounted

for  much  of  the  growth  in  industrial  production  over  recent months.

With  regard to  the  outlook  for housing,  residential  construction had

weakened  in  many parts  of the  country,  though  it  was  holling up  well

in  some  areas.  The  backup  in  mortgage rates  earlier  in  the  year had

reinforced the  more general  cautionary factors  that  had  tended  to

inhibit  overall  spending.  However,  mortgage  rates  had  fallen

substantially  over  the  spring,  and  the members  expected housing

activity  to  pick  up  somewhat  over  the  quarters ahead.

Despite  still  cautious  business  attitudes, moderate  growth

in  overall  business  fixed  investment was  anticipated  over  the  forecast

period.  Spending  could  be buoyed  by  demands  for  business  equipment,

much  of  which probably would  be related  to  efforts  to  modernize

production  facilities  for  competitive  reasons.  Rising  rates  of

capacity utilization  also  could  be  expected  to spur  investment  demand

as  time  went  on.  The  outlook  for  nonresidential  construction was more

negative.  Office  construction  appeared  likely to  remain  severely

depressed for  an  extended period  as  excess  capacity  was absorbed  in

many parts  of  the  country.  On the more  positive  side,  anecdotal

impressions  from several  cities  suggested  that  prices  and  lease terms

of  office  and  other  commercial  structures were tending to  stabilize,

though  the volume  of  actual transactions  remained  quite  limited.

The government  and  foreign  trade  sectors  also  were not  seen

as  likely  to  contribute  significantly  to  the expansion.  The wide-

spread  financial  problems  of  state  and  local  governments  pointed to

quite  limited  growth  in  spending,  even  though  examples  of  sizable

expenditure  programs,  such  as  for  highway  construction  in  some  areas,

-11-

could  be  cited.  At  the federal  level,  defense  spending was  on  a clear

downtrend,  and the  persistence of  large  federal  deficits  argued

against  sizable  new initiatives  for  nondefense  spending.  With regard

to  the  external  sector,  a number  of  members  expressed  the view that

the  outlook for  net  exports  had worsened  despite the weakening  in  the

foreign  exchange  value  of  the  dollar  in  recent  months.  The  growth  in

exports  appeared  to  be  moderating, and  it  was  uncertain at  this  point

to what  extent  economic  expansion  abroad  might  strengthen and  thereby

produce  increased  demand for  U.  S.  goods  and  services.  At  the  same

time,  domestic  expansion in  line  with  the members'  forecasts would  add

to  the  demand  for  imports.

Most  members  anticipated  at  least  a limited  decline  in  the

core  rate  of  inflation  over  the  period through  the  end  of  next year.

In  support  of  this  view, some  members  emphasized the  lagged  effects  of

the  very  restrained  growth  in  money over  a long  period  while others

gave more  weight  to  the  outlook for  continuing if  diminishing  slack  in

labor  and  other  production  inputs.  In  addition,  business  executives

reported  that  strong  competition  still  was  making it  very  difficult

to  raise  prices  and  that  continuing efforts  were  being made  to  improve

operating efficiencies  and  hold  down  costs.  At  the  same  time,  surveys

of  price  expectations  and  conversations with  business contacts

suggested  a view, rooted  partly in  concerns  about  the prospects  for

and  implications  of  further  large  federal  deficits,  that  inflation

ultimately would  return to  the  4 to  5 percent  pace  of  the 1980s.

These  attitudes tended  to  underscore  the  need  for a sound  fiscal

policy that  in  conjunction with  the  continued  implementation  of  an

anti-inflationary monetary  policy would  foster  a reduction  in

inflationary  expectations  and would  facilitate the eventual

achievement  of  price  stability.

-12-

In  keeping with  the  requirements  of  the Full  Employment  and

Balanced  Growth Act  of  1978  (the Humphrey-Hawkins Act),  the  Committee

at  this  meeting  reviewed the  ranges  for  growth  in the monetary  and

debt  aggregates that  it  had  established  in  February  for  1992  and

decided  on  tentative  ranges for  growth  in  those aggregates  in  1993.

The  current  ranges  for  the  period  from the fourth  quarter  of  1991  to

the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  included  expansion  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2

percent  for  M2  and  1 to  5 percent  for  M3.  The monitoring  range for

growth  of  total  domestic nonfinancial debt  had  been  set  at  4-1/2  to

8-1/2  percent.

In  the  course  of  the Committee's  discussion,  all  of  the

members  supported  a proposal  to  retain  the  ranges  established  in

February  for  this  year.  Although  the  rates  of  M2  and  M3  growth  for

the  year through  June were  somewhat  below the  lower  ends  of  the

Committee's  ranges  for  both  aggregates,  this  outcome  had  not  been

associated with  unexpected weakness  in  nominal  spending;  the expansion

in  nominal  GDP  over  the  first  half  of  the year  currently was  estimated

to have  been toward  the upper  end  of  the  central  tendency  of  the

members'  earlier  expectations.  Instead,  velocity had  risen

appreciably--a highly unusual  occurrence  following  a period  of  sharp

declines  in  interest  rates.  Among the developments  helping to  explain

the  weakness  in  money and  the  rise  in  velocity were  a variety  of

business  and  balance  sheet  pressures  that  tended  to  reduce  total

borrowing  and  channel  credit  flows  away  from depository  institutions,

thereby  lessening  the  need  of  those  institutions  to  increase their

monetary liabilities.  At  the  same time,  business  firms  and

households,  in  the  course  of  their  restructuring  activities  and

deleveraging of  their  balance  sheets,  had  found  that  monetary  assets

-13-

had  become  less  attractive  relative to  a variety  of  other  financial

assets  or  debt  repayment.

It  appeared  that  the balance  sheet  adjustments  by  depository

institutions  and  their  customers  that  had contributed  to  velocity

increases were well  under way.  However,  the  factors that  were tending

to  depress broad  money  growth  in  relation to  measures  of  economic  and

price performance were  likely  to  persist,  and  the  extent and  duration

of  deviations  from historic  relationships  were highly uncertain.  In

these  circumstances,  while an  argument  could  be made that  a somewhat

lower  M2  range  might more  readily  encompass  the  rate  of  expansion  in

money  needed  for  a  satisfactory economic  performance  over  the balance

of  the  year,  the selection  of  a different range would  imply  greater

certainty about  emerging  relationships  than was  warranted.  Instead,

the  current  ranges  should be  maintained,  pending  further  developments

and  the  possible  emergence of  a more  settled  outlook  for  money demand.

Some  members  also  commented that  lowering the  ranges  could  be

misconstrued  as  an  intention to  tighten  monetary policy  at  a time  when

relatively  sluggish  growth  in  the  economy and  weakness  in  the monetary

aggregates  argued  for  a  steady policy  course  or  possibly for  some

easing.

At  the  conclusion  of  this  discussion,  the Committee  voted to

reaffirm the  1992  ranges  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent

that  it  had  established  in  February  for  growth  of  M2  and M3,

respectively;  the  Committee  also  decided  to  retain  the  range  of  4-1/2

to  8-1/2  percent  for  growth  of  nonfinancial  debt  in  1992.  The

following  statement  was  approved  for  inclusion  in  the Committee's

domestic  policy  directive:

The Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks

monetary and  financial conditions  that  will foster
price  stability and  promote  sustainable  growth  in
output.  In  furtherance  of  these  objectives, the

-14-

Committee  reaffirmed  at  this  meeting the  ranges  it
had  established  in February  for  growth  of  M2  and M3
of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent,
respectively, measured  from the fourth  quarter  of
1991  to  the fourth  quarter  of  1992.  The  Committee
anticipated  that  developments  contributing to
unusual  velocity  increases  could persist  in the
second  half  of the year.  The monitoring  range  for
growth  of  total  domestic  nonfinancial debt  also  was
maintained  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  the year.

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan,  Angell,  Hoenig,  Jordan, Kelley, LaWare,
Lindsey,  Melzer,  Mullins,  Ms.  Phillips,  and
Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  None.

With  regard to  the  ranges  for  1993  to  be  established  on  a

tentative  basis  at  this meeting,  a majority  of  the members  endorsed  an

extension  of  the  current  ranges  for  another  year,  but  some  believed

that  a  somewhat  lower  range  for  M2  would  be  preferable.  Members  who

wanted  to  retain  the current  ranges  acknowledged  that  a  lower  M2  range

probably would  be  desirable at  some  point to  be  consistent  over  time

with the  Committee's  objective  of  achieving  and  maintaining  reasonable

price stability.  However,  current  uncertainties  with  regard  to  how

soon  and  to what  extent  various  factors  tending to  inhibit  the  growth

in  M2 would  dissipate  argued  for  caution  in  making any  change  to  the

range  now.  A reduction  in  the M2  range  could  be  considered  next

February when  the  Committee meets  to  set  final  ranges  for  money  growth

for  1993,  or  the  range  could  be  lowered  even  sooner  if  new  information

on  the  emerging  relationship  between  the monetary  aggregates  and

nominal  spending allowed  a determination  of  the  appropriate  range  to

be made  with more  confidence.

Members  who  preferred  a somewhat  lower  M2  range  for  1993

acknowledged  that  substantial uncertainties  with  regard  to  an

appropriate  rate  of M2  growth were  likely  to  persist  for  some  time,

but  they felt  that  relatively  subdued  monetary  expansion was  likely  to

-15-

be  consistent with  an  adequate  degree  of  liquidity  and  a satisfactory

economic  performance  next  year.  Lowering  the M2  range  at  this  point

would  extend the  series  of  gradual reductions  in  the ranges  that had

been  implemented  over  the  last  five years  or  so  and  would have  the

important  advantage  of  affirming the  Committee's  commitment  to  price

stability, with  favorable  implications  for  inflationary  expectations

and  in  turn  perhaps  also for  the  strength  and  sustainability  of the

expansion.  A  few members  favoring this  option were  also  of  the view

that  more weight  ought  to  be  placed on M2  as  a  guide to  policy;  this

would have  possible  implications  for  actions  to  boost  M2  growth in

1992  in  addition to  reducing the  range  for  1993  to  promote  long-run

disinflation.  All  of  the  members  agreed  that  regardless  of  the

particulars  of  the  decisions  to  be made  at  this  meeting,  it  was  vital

for  the  Committee to  reaffirm its  commitment  to  the  goal  of  achieving

price  stability.  This  outcome  was the  key contribution  the  Federal

Reserve  could make  toward  facilitating the highest  possible growth  of

the  economy  over  time;  and  maintaining the credibility  of  the  System's

anti-inflationary  effort was  the  best  means  available to  the  Committee

to minimize  disruptions to  the  economy  as  it  was  moving toward  its

potential.

At  the  conclusion  of  this  discussion,  the Committee  approved

provisional  ranges  for  1993  that  were  unchanged  from those for  1992.

The  Committee  voted  to  incorporate the  following  statement  regarding

the  1993  ranges  in  its  domestic  policy  directive:

For  1993,  the  Committee  on  a tentative basis  set

the  same  ranges  as  in  1992  for  growth  of  the monetary
aggregates  and  debt,  measured  from the  fourth  quarter
of  1992  to  the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  The behavior  of
the monetary  aggregates  will  continue  to be  evaluated
in  the  light  of  progress toward  price  level  stability,
movements  in  their  velocities,  and  developments  in  the
economy  and  financial markets.

-16-

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan,  Angell,  Hoenig, Kelley, LaWare,
Lindsey,  Melzer,  Mullins,  and  Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  Mr.  Jordan

and  Ms.  Phillips.

Mr.  Jordan  and  Ms.  Phillips  dissented  because  they believed

that  a  somewhat  lower  M2  range  for  1993  would  be  more  consistent with

a policy  of  continuing progress  toward  price  stability.  They

recognized  that  the  substantial  uncertainties  surrounding the  outlook

for  M2  growth  and  its  velocity next  year  made  it  very  difficult  to

determine  an  appropriate M2  range,  but  a  lower  range would  be  needed

eventually to  achieve  and  sustain  stable prices.  In  the  interim,  it

was  important  for  the  System and  the  credibility  of  its  anti-

inflationary policy  to  continue  the practice  of  gradually  reducing  the

M2  range  to  be  consistent  with  a noninflationary  target.  They would

have  coupled the  decrease  in  the  range  for  1993  with  actions  to  expand

bank  reserves  immediately with the  objective  of  boosting M2  growth  to

within  its  range for  1992.  Such  a combination  would make  clear  that

the  decrease  in  the  range  for M2  growth  in  1993  did  not  represent  a

monetary  "tightening" in  the  conventional  sense,  but  rather  that  it

was  a step  toward  lasting  reductions  in  inflation.

Turning  to  policy  for  the  intermeeting period  ahead,  the

members  were  divided between  those who  supported  an  unchanged  policy

stance  and  others who  preferred  to  ease.  A majority  indicated,

however,  that  they could  support  an unchanged  directive  that

incorporated  a  bias toward  possible  easing.

Members  who  preferred not  to  change  policy  at  this  point

believed  that  the  economy  was  on  a moderate  growth  path  and  that  in

any  case  the forces  restraining the  expansion  were not  the  result  of

inadequate  liquidity  or  a  restrictive monetary  policy.  While  the

-17-

outlook was  clouded by  unusual forces  acting  on  the  economy,  the

available economic  information  remained  consistent with  continuing

expansion  at  a pace  that  offered favorable  prospects  for  a gradual

reduction  of unemployment  and  abatement  of  inflation.  The  low level

of  real  and  nominal  short-term interest  rates,  the  decline  in  the

dollar,  and  the  rapid  growth  of  reserves  and  narrow money along with

the  expansion  of  bond mutual  funds--which while  not  in  M2  seemed  to

provide  liquidity  at  least  comparable  to  that  of  time  deposits--

suggested that  monetary policy had  been  quite  accommodative.  Some

members who  supported this  view expressed  concern  that  in  the  absence

of  more  definitive indications  of  a softening  economy or  much  greater

weakness  in  the monetary aggregates,  any easing  at  this  point would

tend  to  erode  the  credibility  of  the  Committee's  commitment  to  an

anti-inflationary  policy.  The  result  might well  be  to  put  substantial

and  disruptive  downward  pressure  on  the  dollar  in  foreign  exchange

markets  and  to  arrest  or  reverse the  tendency for  domestic  long-term

interest  rates  to  decline.

Most  of  the members who  preferred  an  immediate  easing of

policy  emphasized  the  risks  of a faltering economy  in  the  period

ahead,  especially given  the  recent  indications  of  some slowing  in  the

expansion and  the  already  considerable  slack in  the  economy.  Their

concerns  were heightened  by the  constraining effects  of  ongoing

structural  adjustments  in  the  economy, the weakness in  various

measures  of  money,  and  the  limited  expansion  in  total credit.  A few

of  these members  focused  on the desirability  of  taking relatively

prompt  action  to  foster  growth  in  the  broad measures  of  money within

the  Committee's  ranges  for  the  year.  Some members  observed that  under

current  circumstances  an  easing action  might have  a relatively  limited

effect  in  stimulating monetary growth  over  the months  ahead,  but  such

-18-

a policy move would  nonetheless tend  to  boost  spending by  reducing  the

costs  of  borrowing.

In  their  discussion, the members took  account  of  a staff

analysis  that  suggested  only modest  growth  in M2  and  virtually  none  in

M3  for  the third  quarter  on  the assumption  of  an unchanged  degree  of

reserve  pressure.  Relatively weak  expansion  in  these broad  measures

of money did  not appear  to have  the usual  implications  for the

economy,  as  evidenced  by  experience over  the  first half  of  the  year.

The  prospects were  for  continuing balance sheet  and  other  adjustments

that would  tend  to  curb  the demand for  money  assets  relative to

spending and  income.  Many members  nonetheless were  concerned  about

the  possible persistence  of  the  recent weakness  in  reserves  and  the

longer-term sluggish behavior  of  broad money,  especially  given the

relatively  subdued pace  of  the  expansion.  While monetary measures

might  well  have  lost  some  of  their  indicator  and  predictive

properties,  continued weakness  in  money  might  still  be  a signal  that

financial  conditions were not  yet  conducive  to  fostering  a sustained

pickup  in  spending.

The varying  policy preferences  expressed by the members were

reflected  in  differing  views  with  regard  to  possible adjustments to

the degree  of  reserve pressure in  the  intermeeting  period  ahead.  All

of the members who  favored  some  immediate  easing in  policy  indicated

that  they  could  support  an  unchanged  directive  that was  tilted  toward

ease,  and  at  least  some  of  these  members anticipated  that  developments

over  the near  term were  likely to trigger  an  adjustment toward  easing.

Most  of  the members who  favored  an  unchanged  policy  stance  at  this

point  also  indicated  that they  could  accept  a bias  toward  ease in  the

directive,  especially  in  light  of  current uncertainties  and the

potential  problems  associated with  any  significant  shortfall  in  the

-19-

expansion  from current  expectations.  Other  members who  preferred  a

steady policy course  believed that  it would  be  premature  for  the

Committee to  signal  any bias  toward  easing,  given the relatively low

probability that  they assigned  to  the potential  need  for  such  a move,

and they believed  that  a return  to an  asymmetric  directive  after  the

move  to  symmetry  at  the May meeting  could  have unfavorable  reper-

cussions  on the  Committee's  credibility.

At  the  conclusion  of the  Committee's  discussion,  all  but  two

of  the  members  indicated that  they favored  or  could  accept  a directive

that  called  for maintaining  the existing  degree  of  pressure  on  reserve

positions  and that  included  a bias  toward  possible  easing during the

intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  in  the  context of  the Committee's

long-run objectives  for  price  stability  and  sustainable  economic

growth,  and  giving  careful consideration  to  economic,  financial, and

monetary developments,  slightly  greater  reserve restraint  might  be

acceptable  or  slightly  lesser  reserve  restraint  would be  acceptable

during  the intermeeting period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated

at  this  meeting were  expected  to  be  consistent with  a resumption  of

growth  in  M2  and  M3  at  annual  rates  of  about  2 percent  and  1/2  percent

respectively  over  the three-month  period  from June  through  September.

At  the  conclusion  of the  meeting the following  domestic

policy  directive was  issued to  the  Federal Reserve  Bank  of  New York:

The information  reviewed  at  this  meeting continues

to  suggest  that  economic  activity  is  expanding  at  a
moderate  pace.  Total nonfarm payroll  employment
increased  somewhat  further in  May, but  a surge  in  job
seekers  led  to  a sizable rise  in  the  civilian unemploy-
ment  rate to  7.5  percent.  Industrial production  rose
appreciably  further in  May,  partly reflecting continued
recovery  in  motor  vehicle  assemblies.  Growth  in
consumer  spending  has  slackened  after  a sharp  advance
earlier  this  year.  Although  sales  of  new homes
declined  in  May,  single-family housing  starts  rebounded
to  a level  close  to  the  first-quarter pace.  Recent
data  on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense  capital
goods  indicate  appreciable  increases  in  outlays  for

-20-

business  equipment,  and the  trend  of building  contracts
points  to  some  slowing  of  the decline  in nonresidential
construction.  The nominal  U.S. merchandise  trade
deficit  increased in  April  and was  substantially above
its  average  rate  in the  first  quarter.  Incoming data
on  retail prices  and  labor  costs  suggest  that  inflation
is  slowing.

Most  interest  rates  have  changed  little  since the

Committee  meeting  on May  19.  In  foreign  exchange
markets,  the trade-weighted  value  of  the  dollar  in
terms  of the  other G-10  currencies  declined  further
over  the  intermeeting period.

M2  and  M3  changed  little  in  May  and  appear  to  have

contracted  in  June;  both  retail and  large-denomination
time deposits  continued  to  run  off  rapidly.  Through
June,  expansion  of the  two aggregates was  somewhat
below  the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established  by the
Committee  for  the year.

The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that will  foster  price  sta-
bility  and  promote  sustainable  growth  in  output.  In
furtherance  of  these  objectives,  the  Committee  re-
affirmed  at  this  meeting the  ranges  it  had established
in  February  for  growth  of  M2  and  M3  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2
percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively, measured from
the  fourth  quarter  of  1991  to  the fourth  quarter  of
1992.  The Committee  anticipated that  developments  con-
tributing to  unusual velocity  increases  could  persist
in  the  second  half  of  the  year.  The  monitoring  range
for  growth  of  total  domestic  nonfinancial  debt  also  was
maintained  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  the year.  For
1993,  the  Committee  on  a tentative  basis  set  the  same
ranges  as  in  1992  for  growth  of  the monetary  aggregates
and  debt,  measured  from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to
the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  The behavior  of  the
monetary  aggregates will  continue  to  be  evaluated  in
the  light  of  progress  toward  price  level  stability,
movements  in  their  velocities,  and  developments  in  the
economy  and  financial  markets.

In  the  implementation of  policy  for  the  immediate

future,  the Committee  seeks  to  maintain the  existing
degree  of  pressure on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price  stability and  sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving  careful  consideration  to  economic,  financial,
and  monetary  developments,  slightly greater  reserve
restraint  might  or  slightly lesser  reserve  restraint
would  be  acceptable  in  the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated  reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be

-21-

consistent  with growth  of M2  and M3  over  the  period
from June  through  September  at  annual  rates  of  about
2 and  1/2  percent,  respectively.

Votes  for  short-run  policy:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell, Hoenig,  Jordan, Kelley, Lindsey,
Mullins,  Ms.  Phillips,  and  Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  Messrs.  LaWare

and  Melzer.

Messrs.  LaWare  and Melzer  dissented  because they  judged  an

asymmetric  directive, with  a bias  toward  easing,  as  being inappro-

priate  at  this  time.  In  their  view, the  current  stance  of  monetary

policy was  not  impeding  an  expansion  consistent  with the  economy's

long-run potential.  In  addition,  a bias  toward  ease,  especially in

the  context  of  the  Committee's  decision  at  the May meeting  to  adopt  a

symmetrical  directive,  suggested  an  excessive  emphasis  on  short-term

economic  developments  that  might  undermine  the credibility of  the

System's  long-run policies.  They were  concerned  that  such  a loss  of

credibility  could  have  adverse  effects  on  the dollar  in  foreign

exchange markets  and  on  long-term interest  rates  in  domestic  markets.

Mr.  Melzer  also  believed that,  if  additional  easing were  undertaken,

a greater  policy  reversal ultimately would be  necessary,  making the

attainment  of  sustainable economic  growth more  difficult  in  the  long

run.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press release

I 

i 

-~-~N

I'' 

r .

'  G

-A 

E

For  Use at  4:30 p.m. 

August 23,  1991

The Federal  Reserve Board and the Federal  Open Market

Committee today  released the  attached record of policy actions

taken by the Federal  Open Market  Committee at  its meeting on

July  2-3,  1991.

The  record for  each meeting of the  Committee is made

available a few days  after the next  regularly scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published in the  Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the  Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description of

economic  and  financial  conditions  contained in each record  is

based  solely on the  information that was  available to  the

Committee at  the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF POLICY ACTIONS  OF THE

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET  COMMITTEE

Meeting Held on July 2-3,  1991

Domestic policy  directive

The  information reviewed at  this  meeting suggested  that  an

upturn  in economic  activity had begun  in recent months.  Sizable gains

in consumer  spending and small  increases  in expenditures  on residential

construction appeared to be  fueling a moderate  rise  in domestic final

demand.  Although inventories  were  still  being liquidated, data for

industrial  production and  labor markets indicated that output  was  being

stepped up to meet  that  demand.  Excluding  food and energy  items,

increases  in consumer prices  had been small  in  recent  months.

Total nonfarm payroll employment  edged up  in May, following

nearly a year of  uninterrupted declines,  and the average workweek posted

a sizable gain.  The  turnaround in employment  in May was  fairly  broad-

based.  In manufacturing, recalls  of  workers  in  the motor  vehicles

industry more than accounted  for the  overall  increase, but  most  other

manufacturing industries registered  either small  job  gains  or greatly

moderated job  losses.  Employment  also turned  up in the  construction

sector and in  private  service-producing  industries.  The  unemployment

rate  rose to  6.9  percent  in May but,  averaged over  April and May, the

unemployment  rate was  little  changed  from its  March level.

Industrial production rose  in April and May, after declining

sharply earlier in  the  year;  the  limited product  data  available  for  June

pointed toward another gain.  Perhaps  reflecting the  pickup in housing

starts  in recent months,  production of  construction  supplies  turned  up

in April  and May.  Further advances  in  assemblies  of motor vehicles

contributed  to a slight  rise in manufacturing output over the two

months;  in  spite  of the  overall  increase  in activity, though, the

operating rate in manufacturing edged lower  in May and remained  well

below its  level  of a year earlier.

Real personal  consumption expenditures  rebounded in May from an

April decline;  over the March-to-May period, the  rise in outlays  out-

paced gains  in personal  income.  In  May, a sizable  increase  in spending

for  durable goods  reflected  stronger outlays  for motor vehicles  and

higher expenditures  for most major categories  of nondurable goods.  Ex-

cluding outlays  for electricity  associated with unusually warm weather,

spending for  services  increased  only modestly in May.  Continuing a

pattern of gradual  recovery recorded  in earlier months,  housing starts

rose  over April  and May.  In  these two months,  single-family  starts

strengthened further  but, with apartment vacancy rates  continuing high,

multifamily construction  remained quite  weak.

After declining in the  first  quarter of the  year,  shipments of

nondefense capital  goods  increased in both April and May.  The  turn-

around resulted mostly  from larger shipments of aircraft;  shipments  of

other types  of business  equipment increased  slightly over  the  two

months.  Recent  data  on orders  pointed to  some firming in  the demand for

business equipment.  Near-record vacancy  rates  for  office buildings  and

above-average vacancy  rates  for  industrial buildings  suggested  continu-

ing  weakness  in nonresidential  construction,  although a small  increase

was  recorded  in April.  The pace of  liquidation of manufacturing and

trade  inventories  slowed in April  from the  very rapid March rate,

largely reflecting a slower  rate  of reduction  in stocks  at  auto dealers.

-3-

In May, manufacturing  inventories  fell  appreciably further,  with draw-

downs  occurring in most durable  and nondurable  categories.  For most

industries, the  sharp inventory  corrections of  recent months  along with

a pickup  in  sales  have  reduced inventory-to-sales ratios  substantially.

In  April, the preliminary nominal  U.S. merchandise trade

deficit  widened slightly  from the  revised March level;  however, the

April  deficit  was  somewhat  smaller than the  average  for the  first

quarter,  which itself had registered a sizable decrease.  The  value of

both exports  and  imports  rose in  April.  For  exports,  the  increase

occurred primarily  in capital  goods and automotive  products,  but  gains

also  were  indicated for  a broad range  of  industrial  supplies.  Increases

in  the value  of  imports  were  spread among capital  and consumer goods  and

non-oil  industrial  supplies.  Recent  indicators of  economic activity in

the major  foreign industrial  countries  had been mixed;  on balance,

growth seemed to  have been  sluggish in  the  second  quarter, while infla-

tion  in most of  these countries appeared to be  stable or  declining.

Nonfood, non-energy consumer prices  increased over  the March

through May period at  a substantially slower pace than over  the  first

two  months  of the  year.  Part  of the  slowdown in recent  months  reflected

an unwinding  of  large price  increases  that had occurred in  certain com-

ponents  of  the  index  early in  the  year.  In May, producer prices  of

finished goods  firmed somewhat,  largely  reflecting an  upturn in  energy

prices.  Although average  hourly earnings  of production  or  nonsuper-

visory workers  rose  at  a faster  rate  in April and May than  in  the  first

quarter of the year, the  increase  in  earnings  over the  twelve months

ending in May slowed  somewhat.  For the twelve months  ending in March,

-4-

growth  in total employer  costs  for  compensation of  private  industry

workers  had slowed  from the  comparable  year-earlier period.

At  its  meeting on May 14,  1991,  the Committee  adopted  a direc-

tive that  called for maintaining the  existing degree  of  pressure  on

reserve positions  and that  did not  contain any presumption about  the

likely  direction of  possible  intermeeting adjustments.  Accordingly, the

directive  indicated that  somewhat more  or  somewhat  less pressure  on

reserve positions might be  appropriate during the  intermeeting period

depending on progress  toward price stability, trends  in  economic

activity, the behavior of  the monetary aggregates,  and developments  in

foreign exchange  and domestic  financial markets.  The  contemplated

reserve  conditions were expected to  be  consistent with  growth of  M2  and

M3 at  annual  rates  of  around  4 and  2 percent  respectively over the

three-month period  from March through  June.

Open market  operations  during the  intermeeting period were

directed toward maintaining the existing  degree  of pressure  on  reserve

positions.  The  federal  funds  rate  remained near  5-3/4  percent,  while

adjustment plus  seasonal borrowing tended to  average  a little  above

assumed levels  because  of  somewhat  greater usage  of  adjustment  credit.

Several technical  changes  were made  to  assumed levels  of  borrowing to

reflect  expected  increases  in the  demand for  seasonal  credit  during the

spring crop  planting  season.  Against  a backdrop of  accumulating evi-

dence  that  the  economy was  beginning to recover  and related expectations

that  no  further easing of monetary policy was  likely  in  the near  term,

many interest  rates  rose  slightly during the  intermeeting period,  while

most major  stock  price  indexes edged higher  on  balance.

-5-

The trade-weighted value  of the  dollar in  terms  of the other

G-10  currencies  increased substantially on  net  over the  intermeeting

period, partly  in  response to  news  suggesting that  the  U.S.  economy was

turning upward.  The dollar  rose  strongly against  the mark  and other

European  currencies,  which also were  affected by political  developments

in Europe.

Growth of  M2  rebounded in May from its  tax-related weakness  in

April but  slowed  again in  June.  Over  the  three months  ending with June,

the  expansion of  M2  fell  somewhat  short  of  Committee  expectations.  In-

flows  to the  liquid retail deposit  components  of M2 were  strong in  the

latest two months,  but  small time  deposits  declined at  an  accelerating

rate;  depositors  evidently responded to  less  attractive  offering rates

on  these deposits  by  shifting  some  funds  not  only  into  liquid money

stock  components but  also  into bond and  stock  mutual  funds  and  other

capital market  investments  not  included  in this  aggregate.  M3  fell

slightly in  June  and had grown  little  since  February,  reflecting con-

tinued  shrinkage  of  the  thrift  industry and  the  weakness  in bank  loan

demand and therefore  in  overall  funding needs.  For the  year thus  far,

expansion of M2  and M3  had been  in the middle  portion of  the Committee's

ranges.

The  staff  projection prepared  for  this meeting  suggested that

economic  activity was  beginning to  recover from the  recession and  that

moderate  growth in  final  demand accompanied by  a shift  in  business  in-

ventories  from substantial  liquidation  to modest  accumulation would lead

to  considerable  growth over  the  second half  of the  year.  The  stimulus

from the  inventory swing  was projected  to  diminish next year  and the

-6-

expansion to  slow gradually to a pace  consistent with continuing

moderate growth in final  demand.  On balance, the early and  subsequent

phases  of  the recovery were projected to be  relatively slow by past

cyclical  standards,  reflecting the  limited impetus  that  could be

expected from some key  sectors of  the  economy, such as  nonresidential

construction  where activity  would be  depressed by high  vacancy rates.

In addition, fiscal policy, including the budgetary stance of  state  and

local  governments, was projected to remain  fairly restrictive.  Against

the  background of continuing,  albeit decreasing, slack in  labor and

product markets, the  core  rate of  inflation was  expected to decline

considerably over the  period through the end of  1992.

In the Committee's  review of current  and  prospective economic

developments,  the members  generally agreed that  a recovery very likely

was under way, that  final  demand would grow moderately  for  some time,

and that  an  end to inventory  reductions would provide  an impetus  to

production over  coming quarters.  A number of  factors  were  expected to

damp the expansion, notably the  budget policies  of  governments  at  all

levels and  continuing weakness  in nonresidental  construction.  There

also  were puzzling aspects  to the  current  situation and  attendant  risks

to  the  outlook:  commodity prices had  failed to  firm in their  usual

pattern in the  early  stages of  a recovery;  on  the  financial  side, money

and  credit growth had remained modest,  and conditions  were  still  fragile

in many  respects.  However,  sources of  strength  in an  economic  expansion

often have been difficult to anticipate  near a cycle  trough.  Moreover,

while  the expansion was  expected to  be  slower than the  average  in post-

war business  cycles,  the recession  had been relatively  shallow, and  a

-7-

moderate expansion was more  likely to be sustained  for a considerable

period ahead,  in  large measure because it  would be  consistent with

containing inflation pressures.

The  members  projected  that  the  underlying  rate  of  inflation

would decline in  coming quarters--despite quite limited  progress  thus

far  this  year--in  light  of  some  continuing  slack  in  demands  on  produc-

tion  resources  and  efforts  by  businesses  to  contain  costs. 

A  number

stressed  that  the  moderate  monetary  growth  over  recent  years  suggested

that  monetary  policy  had  been  positioned  to  foster  a  reduction  in

inflation,  and  they  anticipated  that  the  beneficial  effects  of  this

policy  would show  through  over  the  projection  period.

In keeping with the practice at  meetings when the  Committee

considers  its  long-run ranges  for the  money and  debt aggregates,  the

members  of  the  Committee  and  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank  presidents  not

currently serving as  members provided specific projections  of the  growth

in  real  and nominal  GNP, the  rate  of  unemployment, and the  rate  of

inflation for  1991 and 1992.  These  projections took account  of  the

monetary  growth  ranges  that  the  Committee  reaffirmed  for  1991  and  estab-

lished  on  a  tentative  basis  for  1992  at  this  meeting;  these  ranges  are

expected to be  consistent  with the  Committee's  goal of  promoting a sus-

tained  expansion  in  the economy,  fostered  by  further  progress  toward

price  stability.  Forecasts of nominal GNP  converged on  growth rates  of

4-1/2  to 5-1/4 percent  for  1991  and 5-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  for  1992.

With  regard  to  the rate  of  expansion  in  real  GNP, 

the  projections  had  a

central  tendency  of  3/4  to  1  percent  for  1991  as  a  whole, 

implying  a

sizable  rebound  over  the  balance  of  the  year;  for  the  year  1992,  the

central tendency of the projections  was  2-1/4  to  3 percent.  While the

civilian unemployment  rate  was  not projected to  fall much over  the

balance of the  year, the expansion was  expected to  result  in a decline

to  a somewhat  lower  range of  6-1/4 to  6-1/2  percent by the  fourth

quarter  of 1992.  With regard to  the  rate of  inflation  as  measured by

the  consumer  price index, the  projections  had a central tendency of

3-1/4  to 3-3/4  percent  for  1991  and  3 to  4 percent  for  1992;  because

declines  in  energy prices  had damped  the  rise of  consumer prices  sub-

stantially thus  far in 1991,  the  similarity of the ranges  for the  two

years  masked expectations  of a pronounced  decline in the  core  rate  of

inflation.

In the  course of the  Committee's  discussion, members  reported

tha'  business  conditions  remained uneven,  depending on the mix of local

industries,  but  overall economic  activity now appeared to  be  expanding

at  a modest  pace  in  a number  of regions  and to  have stabilized  following

earlier  declines  in  several  other parts  of the  nation.  However, in some

areas,  notably portions  of  the Northeast,  business  activity appeared to

be  weakening further.  Business  sentiment  remained  cautious  on the

whole,  but many business  contacts  were  expressing greater  confidence  in

the  outlook  for  the  economy and  their  own industries,  at  least  looking

ahead to  1992.  Agriculture was  a source  of  strength  in many parts  of

the  country, but  drought conditions  in  some  areas  and excessive  rains  in

others had  given  rise  to  some  concerns.

As  has  tended to  occur  in  the  early  stages  of previous  cyclical

recoveries,  the  swing  in business  inventories  from substantial  liquida-

tion toward  accumulation was  likely  to  play  a leading role  in  bolstering

the expansion during the next two or three quarters.  The members ac-

knowledged that  inventory developments were  difficult  to project, and

views differed to  some  extent  regarding the  strength of the impetus that

might be  forthcoming from this  source over the next  few  quarters.  In

any event, the available data tended to confirm reports  from business

contacts regarding the absence of excessive  stocks in most  sectors  of

the economy and parts  of  the country.  In these  circumstances,  the

firming in final sales that  appeared to be under way was  likely to

result  in a cessation of  inventory liquidation over the  nearer term and

to induce an actual buildup at  some point  later.  It was  suggested that

this  process already had begun and might  indeed be  somewhat  ahead of

earlier expectations.

While the swing in inventories  was  likely to provide a substan-

tial boost  to economic activity over the next  few  quarters,  some members

questioned the  potential strength of  ongoing factors promoting expansion

once  the adjustment  in  inventories  had largely run its  course.  Growth

in  consumer spending might  well remain relatively  restrained.  The

saving rate  already was  low,  and the willingness or ability of many

consumers to  incur debt to  finance increased spending would tend to be

inhibited by existing debt burdens  and perhaps  also  by the  loss  of tax

deductibility on consumer  loan interest.  In addition,  widespread pub-

licity about the  fragility of  some financial  institutions  and continuing

concerns  about  employment prospects might damp  consumer sentiment,  and

the absence of a strong rebound in residential  construction would tend

to moderate the growth in spending on  consumer durables 

On the  posi-

tive side, the  favorable effects  on disposable  income of the  earlier

-10-

decline  in oil  prices was being supplemented by a resumption of  appre-

ciable growth  in personal  income  as  final  sales  and production improved.

With regard to the outlook for business  fixed investment,  con-

tacts  around  the  nation  suggested that  business  executives  remained

cautious  about making  capital  spending  commitments.  Nonetheless, the

recent pickup  in new orders for business  equipment  and a more mixed

pattern in nonresidential  building contract  awards and permits  were

promising developments  that tended to  reduce earlier concerns  about  a

possible  cumulative weakening  in business  investment.  Among the  com-

ponents  of this  key sector of the  economy, nonresidential  construction

activity was  expected to remain depressed, probably for an extended

period  in many localities,  because of the  substantial overhang of  vacant

office  space  and other  commercial  facilities.  Some members  noted,

however, that nonresidential  construction was  improving  in  some areas,

in  part as  a result  of public works  projects.  Despite the  likelihood of

persisting weakness  in nonresidential  construction, overall business

fixed investment  was  expected to  strengthen to a limited extent  once the

recovery  in economic  activity was more  firmly established.

The outlook for  residential construction was viewed as  somewhat

more promising.  Home  sales  appeared to be on a distinct  uptrend, not-

withstanding the  temporary  reversal in new home  sales  in May, and resi-

dential  construction  was picking up  in many areas  as  housing backlogs

were worked  lower.  Members commented,  however, that the  upswing in  such

construction might be  relatively  subdued by past  cyclical  standards,

reflecting fairly high  vacancy rates  and the  failure  of mortgage rates

-11-

to decline  as  much as  they had  in previous  recession periods.  Continu-

ing constraints  on the availability  of  loans  for  land acquisition and

construction might also be a factor tending to  inhibit  construction

activity, at  least  currently.

With regard to the  financial  setting of  the  economy more

generally, members  noted that  the  distress  being experienced by some

financial intermediaries  was  a key  source of  concern and downside risk

for the economy.  One  could not  rule out  a major deterioration in  con-

fidence in one  or more types  of lenders,  which could  seriously  disrupt

their ability or willingness to  supply  credit.  However, that  risk  was

likely to  lessen over time.  The  rebuilding of balance  sheets,  including

those of  commercial banks,  was  a promising development,  and the  strength

of the  stock market along with  lower  risk premia on debt  obligations

pointed to an  improving  financial climate.  Borrowers  with direct  access

to  capital markets were  finding abundant  credit  at  lower  spreads.  Many

depository institutions apparently were  continuing  to pursue very

cautious  lending policies,  though the  shift  toward even more  stringent

terms on  loans  seemed to have abated. 

Overall, debt  growth appeared

be quite  sluggish, with much of the weakness concentrated at  depository

institutions;  this  probably was  contributing to the  relatively damped

expansion  of the  monetary aggregates  around the  cycle trough.  The  rela-

tionship between borrowing and spending  seemed to be adjusting in ways

that  were not  entirely understood, but  the  behavior of both debt and

money were  cautionary  signs  that  needed to be monitored carefully.

A number  of members commented that  in comparison with  prior

cyclical  experience the  budget  policies  of all levels  of  government were

-12-

likely to be relatively restrictive  over the  projection horizon.  At the

federal level,  despite burgeoning borrowing requirements  in  the  near

term, cutbacks  in  defense  spending and other efforts to  curb expendi-

tures under the budget  agreement  of 1990  and to maintain that control

under procedures put  in place by the  agreement,  appeared to have helped

put  federal spending for goods  and services  on a downward path.  At the

state  and local  level,  severe  budgetary problems  were being addressed in

many areas  by increased taxes and restraints  on spending.  These efforts

to control  governmental  spending  were  likely to be  an important  factor

contributing to a subdued expansion in nonresidential  construction.

Turning to the  outlook for  inflation, the  members  remained

optimistic that  substantial progress  could be made  in reducing its

underlying  rate over the  projection horizon.  Some expressed disappoint-

ment that, while  a number of  special  factors  had been involved,  the

deceleration  in  consumer  prices had been very limited this  year, ex-

cluding the effects of a sharp drop  in  energy prices and  slower  in-

creases in food prices.  Nonetheless,  the members  generally believed

that  if the  recovery tended to unfold as  they were projecting, pressures

on production resources  would remain  subdued and efforts  to  contain

labor and other business costs  would continue,  especially in the  context

of very competitive markets  for most  products.  Additionally, the  appre-

ciation of the dollar this year  could be expected to exert  a damping

effect  on inflation.  As  a trend toward  lower inflation became more pro-

nounced and widely perceived, the disinflationary forces  in the  economy

would be reinforced by a moderation of  inflationary expectations.  An

integral part of these  developments,  which several members emphasized,

-13-

was  the  role  of restrained monetary expansion over an extended period in

curbing underlying  inflation pressures

Against  the background of the Committee's  views regarding

prospective economic developments  and  in keeping with the  requirements

of  the  Full  Employment  and Balanced Growth Act  of 1978  (the Humphrey-

Hawkins  Act),  the Committee  at  this meeting reviewed the ranges  for

growth in the monetary and debt  aggregates that  it  had  set  in February

for  1991,  and it  established on a tentative basis  ranges  for  growth in

those measures  in 1992.  The  current  ranges  included growth of  2-1/2 to

6-1/2  percent  for M2  and  1 to 5 percent  for M3  for  the period  from the

fourth quarter of  1990 to the  fourth quarter of 1991.  A monitoring

range  of 4-1/2  to  8-1/2 percent had been set  for  growth in  total domes-

tic  nonfinancial debt  in  1991.

In  the  course of the  Committee's  deliberations,  all  of  the

members  agreed that  the  ranges  established  for this  year remained

appropriate.  The members  noted that  both M2  and M3  were  in  the middle

portions  of their ranges.  With  regard to developments  affecting M2,

growth of  nominal income had  weakened over  the first  half  of the year,

but demands  for M2  balances had been bolstered by declines  in market

interest  rates  that  had brought  a narrowing of  the  opportunity costs

associated with holding deposits.  On balance,  growth of  this  aggregate

thus  far  in  1991  had  fallen short  of what  might  have been expected  on

the  basis  of historical  relationships  with nominal  income  and  interest

rates.  The  reasons  for  the  shortfalls were  not  fully  understood, but

the  continuing  redirection  of  credit  flows  away from depository institu-

-14-

tions  and toward market  channels  as  well as apparent  investor prefer-

ences for the higher yields offered by longer-term investments appeared

to be  contributing factors.  The projected pickup in nominal  GNP growth

in the second half of the year would by itself tend to boost the growth

of  M2 somewhat, but increases  in velocity also were quite possible.  Any

strengthening of M2 probably would be  limited by some widening of oppor-

tunity costs associated with a further decline in  offering rates  on

liquid deposits in lagged response  to earlier declines in market rates.

Moreover, the likely persistence of a steep yield  curve could lead

depositors to  continue to place  some maturing time deposits  in long-term

market instruments that  had more attractive yields,  such as bond mutual

funds.  Considerable uncertainty continued to  surround the  demand for

money and the behavior of  velocity.  However, in the  judgment  of the

Committee,  it now seemed that  growth within the  current range would

indicate that  policy was  positioned to  foster a sustainable economic

expansion,  and that the four percentage-point range provided adequate

leeway  for any  adjustments that might be needed  in the event the  economy

or monetary velocity were to diverge substantially from their expected

paths.

Through the  remainder of  1991,  M3  growth also could  be expected

to be boosted by the strengthening  of the  recovery,  which was  likely to

stimulate some pickup  in bank  credit extensions.  However, a faster  pace

of  resolutions by the Resolution Trust  Corporation  (RTC) would tend to

depress  thrift  credit--by placing more thrift  assets  under government

control or  in the hands  of private nondepository institutions--and

issuance of  large time  deposits by branches and agencies of  foreign

-15-

banks  could be expected to slow from the pace earlier  in the year  as

more of the  adjustment  to the  change in relative borrowing costs  caused

by the  reduction in reserve requirements  late  last  year was  completed.

The members  took note of  a number of  factors that  had tended  to

depress the growth of domestic nonfinancial debt,  which had been growing

at  the low end of the Committee's monitoring range.  The  latter included

the  slower pace of economic activity, more  cautious attitudes  on the

part  of borrowers  toward taking  on debt  and lenders  toward extending it,

and a sharply  lower pace  of  net equity  retirements.  Looking ahead, the

members  anticipated that,  with the pickup in the  economy,  nonfinancial

debt  would expand more  rapidly in the  second half of the  year.  While

slowing debt  growth had a number of positive aspects  for the  long-run

stability of the financial markets  and the  economy, a tendency  for  debt

to drop  below its  current  range might  indicate that  supply or  demand

conditions  were  inconsistent  with a satisfactory economic expansion.

At the  conclusion of this  discussion, the  Committee  voted to

approve the  following broad policy statement  and to  reaffirm the  1991

ranges that  it  had established in February  for growth of M2,  M3,  and

nonfinancial debt:

The  Federal  Open Market  Committee seeks  monetary and

financial  conditions  that  will  foster price  stability and
promote  sustainable  growth in output.  In  furtherance  of
these  objectives,  the  Committee  reaffirmed at  this meeting
the  ranges  it had established  in February  for  growth of M2
and M3  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent and 1 to  5 percent,
respectively, measured from the  fourth quarter of  1990  to
the  fourth quarter of  1991.  The monitoring range  for
growth  of total  domestic  nonfinancial  debt  also was
maintained at  4-1/2  to 8-1/2  percent  for the year.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Black, Forrestal, Keehn, Kelley,
LaWare, Mullins, and Parry.

Votes against this  action:  None.

-16-

In the Committee's  discussion of  the  ranges  for  1992,  most  of

the members  supported  a proposal  to  extend the  1991  ranges  provisionally

to  next  year.  Insofar  as  developments bearing  on economic and  financial

conditions  in  1992  could be  anticipated at  this  point,  these members

believed  that monetary growth within the  current  ranges  would be  con-

sistent  with sustainable  economic  expansion in  the  context  of  continuing

progress  toward price stability.  The  upper bounds  of  those  ranges  pro-

vided desirable leeway  for policy to resist  any tendency  for  the  recov-

ery to  falter while the lower ends  allowed ample  room for policy to

counter  stronger-than-expected inflationary pressures.

Several members  favored a reduction in the  M2  range  for next

year.  Such a move would continue  the trend  of moving the range  downward

until  it  was  consistent with price  stability.  Recent  developments

suggested that  conditions  were  favorable  for making substantial progress

toward lower  inflation,  and these members  emphasized that  it  was  impor-

tant  for  the  Committee  not  only to  take  advantage  of  this opportunity

but to  signal  its  determination in  this  regard.  The  resulting improve-

ment  in the  credibility of the  Committee's  anti-inflationary policy  and

the  related  favorable effects  on  inflationary  expectations would  reduce

the transitional costs  of  achieving price stability.

Those  in  favor  of  retaining the  current  range  for M2  commented

that  the  range  had been reduced  substantially in  recent  years  and that

its  midpoint  already was  close to  a rate  consistent with price  stability

over time,  presuming no  unanticipated trend  in the velocity  of M2  and

some  upward bias  in measured  inflation.  For  1992,  some  members were

concerned that,  absent  a significant  increase  in the velocity  of M2,

-17-

satisfactory nominal  GNP  growth--within the central  tendency  of  the

members'  forecasts--already implied expansion of M2  in  the  upper part  of

a 2-1/2  to  6-1/2 percent  range.  A lower  range might not  provide  suffi-

cient  flexibility to deal  with an unanticipated  shortfall in aggregate

demand or  disturbances to  still-fragile  financial markets.  Uncertain-

ties  about  the behavior  of velocity at  a time  when an  important  restruc-

turing of  financial flows  appeared to be  in process,  especially with

regard to  the  role of depository  institutions,  also  argued  for simply

carrying  over the  existing  range.  There would be  an opportunity to

review the  range  next  February, when evidence  would be  in  hand about

velocity  in the  second half  of  the  year and  some  of  the  uncertainties

about the  strength of the  recovery would be  diminished.  At  that time,

careful  consideration would need  to be  given to reducing the  range,  if

conditions  implied that  such an  action was appropriate  in  furthering and

underscoring the  System's  goal  of  reducing  inflation over time.

At  the conclusion of this  discussion, with two members

dissenting, the Committee  approved provisional ranges  for  1992  that  were

unchanged from those  for 1991,  and  it  voted to  incorporate the  following

statement  regarding the  1992  ranges  in  its  domestic policy directive:

For  1992,  on  a tentative basis,  the Committee  agreed

to  use the  same  ranges  as  in  1991  for  growth  in  each  of
the monetary aggregates  and debt,  measured from the  fourth
quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth  quarter of  1992.  With
regard  to M3,  the  Committee  anticipated that the  ongoing
restructuring  of thrift  depository institutions would
continue  to depress  the  growth of  this  aggregate relative
to  spending  and total  credit.  The  behavior of  the
monetary aggregates  will  continue to be  evaluated in  the
light  of  progress  toward price  level  stability, movements
in  their velocities,  and  developments  in  the economy and
financial markets.

-18-

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Forrestal,  Keehn, Kelley, LaWare, Mullins,
and Parry.

Votes  against  this  action:  Messrs. Angell  and

Black.

Messrs.  Angell and Black dissented because  they preferred to

reduce  the M2  range  for  1992 by  1/2  percentage point.  They pointed out

that  the  lower range would be  centered on  the  average growth  of M2  in

recent years  and would provide a timely  signal  of  the Committee's  con-

tinuing  commitment to price  stability, thereby reinforcing  and extending

the progress  in  curbing inflation anticipated over the next  several

quarters.  They believed that  the  resulting decline  in inflationary

expectations would lower the  transitional  costs of  achieving price

stability  and,  by  favorably affecting long-term interest rates,  would

help  sustain the expansion  in  economic activity.

In the  Committee's  discussion  of policy  for  the intermeeting

period ahead, all  of the members were  in favor  of maintaining  an un-

changed  degree  of pressure on  reserve positions.  They believed that  at

this  juncture  an unchanged policy  course  offered the greatest promise  of

reconciling the  Committee's  goals  of sustaining the nascent business

recovery while  also fostering  further  progress against  inflation.  There

were  obvious  areas  of  uncertainty and vulnerability  in the  current

economic and  financial  situation, but  developments  were  unlikely to

require  an  immediate  adjustment  in  reserve market  conditions.  For now,

monetary  policy appeared to be  on  an  appropriate  course.

The members  devoted some  attention during this  discussion to

the relatively  sluggish growth  of M2  and M3  in  recent months.  Some

commented that  the behavior of  the broader  aggregates might  imply  that

-19-

monetary policy had not  been eased sufficiently in  recent months  and

therefore might  not provide  adequate support  to sustain the  expansion.

It was  noted, however, that  apart  from the usual uncertainties  about the

relationship of M2 and M3 to  growth and spending in  the  short  run, the

expansion of Ml  and especially of reserves  and the monetary base had

been fairly robust  since  early spring.  Moreover, many borrowers were

meeting their  financing  needs  through market  sources.  In this  situa-

tion, the members  generally concluded that  the behavior  of M2  and M3,

which  on a cumulative basis  were  still  in  the middle  portions of the

Committee's  ranges  for the  year, did not  call  for  any policy adjustments

at  this point.  Nonetheless,  continuing  weak  growth might  require  a

review of  this  conclusion.  A staff projection prepared for  this meeting

indicated that,  with reserve market  conditions  unchanged, somewhat

faster  growth  in the broader  aggregates was  likely to  emerge  in  the

months  ahead, induced by  greater money demands  in the  context  of a

strengthening  economy.

With regard to possible adjustments  to the degree  of reserve

pressure  during the intermeeting period ahead, nearly all  the members

expressed a preference  for a directive  that  did  not  bias  prospective

operations  toward tightening or easing but made  an intermeeting adjust-

ment,  if  any,  equally likely  in either  direction  depending on economic

and  financial  developments  and the  behavior of  the monetary aggregates.

One member  preferred a directive  that  was  tilted toward possible

tightening;  in  this view,  a prompt  response  to any tendency  for  infla-

tionary conditions  to  re-emerge would have  a favorable  effect  on  infla-

tionary expectations  and long-term debt markets and might avert  the  need

-20-

for  a more  substantial policy adjustment  later.  Other members  agreed on

the  desirability  of  a prompt adjustment  to  inflationary developments,

but  they did not  see  a special  need to anticipate  such an  adjustment  in

the  period ahead.

At  the  conclusion of the  Committee's discussion, all  of the

members  indicated that  they favored a directive  that  called for main-

taining the  existing degree of  pressure on  reserve positions.  The

members  also noted that  they preferred or  could accept  a directive that

did not  include  a presumption  about  the  likely direction of  any inter-

meeting adjustments  in policy.  Accordingly, the  Committee  decided that

somewhat  greater  reserve  restraint or  somewhat  lesser  reserve restraint

might be  acceptable during the  period ahead  depending on progress  toward

price  stability,  trends in economic  activity, the  behavior  of the

monetary aggregates, and  developments  in  foreign exchange  and domestic

financial markets.  The reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this meeting

were expected  to  be  consistent  with  some increase  in the  growth  of M2

and M3  to annual  rates  of  around 5-1/2  and 3 percent  respectively  over

the three-month period  from June through September.

At  the  conclusion of the meeting, the  following domestic policy

directive was  issued to the  Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York:

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggests

that economic  activity has  begun to  recover  from the
recent  recession.  The unemployment rate  rose to  6.9
percent in May, but  total  nonfarm payroll employment
edged up and the  average  workweek posted  a sizable
gain.  Manufacturing output has  risen in  recent months,
led  by appreciable  increases  in assemblies  of motor
vehicles.  Consumer  spending has  been  bolstered in part
by an  upturn in  personal  income.  An increase  in  orders
points to  a firming  in  demand for business  equipment,
but  nonresidential construction remains  weak.  Housing
starts  rose  over April  and May.  The  nominal  U.S.

-21-

merchandise trade deficit  in April  was  somewhat below
the  average  rate in the  first  quarter.  Increases  in
consumer prices  have been  small in recent  months.

Most  interest  rates have  risen slightly since the
Committee meeting on May 14.  The trade-weighted value
of  the  dollar in terms  of the  other G-10 currencies
increased substantially on balance over the  inter-
meeting period.

M2 grew at  a moderate  pace  over May and  June,

while M3  changed little.  For the year thus  far,  ex-
pansion of M2  and M3  has  been  in the middle portion of
the Committee's  ranges.

The  Federal Open Market Committee seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that  will  foster  price  sta-
bility and promote sustainable  growth  in output.  In
furtherance  of these objectives,  the  Committee re-
affirmed at  this meeting the  ranges  it  had established
in February  for  growth of M2  and M3  of 2-1/2  to  6-1/2
percent  and 1 to  5 percent,  respectively, measured from
the  fourth  quarter of  1990 to  the  fourth quarter of
1991.  The  monitoring range  for  growth of total domes-
tic nonfinancial debt  also was  maintained  at  4-1/2  to
8-1/2  percent  for  the  year.  For 1992,  on  a tentative
basis,  the  Committee agreed to  use  the  same  ranges  as
in  1991  for  growth in each of the monetary  aggregates
and debt,  measured from the  fourth  quarter  of  1991  to
the  fourth quarter of 1992.  With regard to M3,  the
Committee anticipated that the  ongoing restructuring  of
thrift depository  institutions  would continue  to
depress  the growth of this aggregate  relative  to
spending and total  credit.  The behavior  of the
monetary aggregates will  continue to be  evaluated in
the  light of progress toward price  level  stability,
movements  in their velocities,  and developments  in the
economy and  financial markets.

In the  implementation of policy for  the  immediate

future, the  Committee seeks  to maintain the  existing
degree of pressure on  reserve positions.  Depending
upon progress  toward price  stability, trends  in
economic activity,  the behavior of  the monetary
aggregates,  and developments  in foreign exchange  and
domestic  financial markets,  somewhat  greater  reserve
restraint  or  somewhat lesser  reserve  restraint  might be
acceptable  in the  intermeeting period.  The  contem-
plated reserve  conditions  are  expected to be  consistent
with growth of M2  and M3 over the  period  from June
through September at  annual  rates  of about  5-1/2  and 3
percent,  respectively.

-22-

Votes  for  the paragraph on short-run policy

implementation:  Messrs.  Greenspan, Corrigan,
Angell, Black,  Forrestal, Keehn,  Kelley, LaWare,
Mullins and Parry.

Votes  against this  action:  None.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For  Use at  4:30  p.m. 

November  8, 1991

The Federal Reserve  Board and  the  Federal Open  Market

Committee today released  the  attached  record  of  policy  actions

taken  by the  Federal Open Market  Committee at  its  meeting on

October  1, 1991.

The  record for  each meeting  of the  Committee  is  made

available a few days  after  the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently  is  published  in  the  Federal Reserve  Bulletin

and  the Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description  of

economic and  financial  conditions  contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the  information  that was  available to  the

Committee  at the time  of  the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF  POLICY ACTIONS  OF  THE

FEDERAL  OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting  Held  on October  1, 1991

Domestic  Policy Directive:

The information reviewed  at  this  meeting suggested  on  balance

that  the economy was  continuing to  recover  from the  recession  but  that

its  performance was  uneven across  sectors.  Consumer  spending was

rising,  especially for  durable  goods,  but  businesses  remained cautious

about investing  in  plant,  equipment,  or  inventories.  On  the produc-

tion  side, the  advance in  manufacturing  activity continued,  although

the  recovery in housing  construction  appeared  to  have  lost  some  of  the

momentum evident  through  the  spring,  and  little  growth was  occurring

in much  of the  service-producing sector.  The  pickup  in  production had

been  reflected  primarily in a sizable  rise  in  aggregate hours worked

rather  than  in  the  number  of  jobs.  Increases  in  prices  appeared  to be

on  a gradual  downtrend.

In  August,  total nonfarm payroll  employment retraced part  of

a July decline  and  on  balance was  little  changed  since March.  Manu-

facturing employment  registered widespread  gains  in  August,  and the

factory workweek rose  to  its  highest  level  in  nearly  a year.  In  the

private  service-producing  sector, new hires  in health  and  business

services  displayed  appreciable  strength, but  the  rest  of this  sector,

particularly wholesale and  retail  trade,  remained  weak.  Jobs  in

construction continued  to decline,  and  employment  reductions  occurred

in  state  and local  governments  for  a second  straight  month.  The

civilian unemployment  rate was  6.8  percent  in both  July  and  August.

Industrial production posted  a moderate further  rise  in

August  after  several months  of  sizable gains.  Assemblies  of motor

vehicles  slowed in  August when a number  of  plants  were  closed tempo-

rarily for  model changeovers, but  output  of  other  consumer  durables

continued to  increase and  output  of  consumer  nondurables  rebounded.

Production  of business  equipment  remained weak and  on balance  had

changed  little since  spring after  dropping sharply  in  late 1990  and

early  1991.  Total  industrial  capacity utilization  edged up  in August,

and  over the  course of  recent months  it  had  retraced only a small part

of  the  decline that  occurred between  mid-1990  and  March  1991.

Operating rates  in  manufacturing had  recovered  to  a somewhat  greater

extent,  reflecting  in  part  the  rebound in motor-vehicle  assemblies.

Retail  sales  fell  in  August, mostly  because of  a decline  in

sales  of motor  vehicles.  For  July  and August  together,  nonautomotive

retail  sales  were up  considerably  on  balance.  After  increasing

appreciably  since January, housing  starts  rose  only  slightly further

in  July and  August.  The number  of  permits  for  construction  of  single-

family homes  declined  in  August and  was  unchanged  from the  second-

quarter  level.  In  the multifamily  sector,  construction  activity

remained  near  its  thirty-year  low.  Sales  of new homes  were  down  in

July, while  sales  of  existing homes  fell  in  both July  and August.

Shipments  of  nondefense capital  goods,  measured  in  nominal

terms,  were down  on  balance  over  July  and  August.  Taking into  account

the  substantial  recent  declines  in the prices  of  computing  equipment,

however,  real  outlays  for  business  equipment  apparently rose  on

balance  over  the two months  as  reduced spending  on  industrial

equipment was more than  offset by  increased  investment  in  computers

and,  to  a lesser  extent,  transportation equipment.  Recent data  on

orders  and  shipments  of nondefense capital  goods  pointed  to  a further

small rise  in  real  outlays  for  business  equipment.  The value  of

nonresidential  construction put  in  place  in  July was  substantially

below the second-quarter  level,  reflecting the continuing  decline in

office, other  commercial,  and hotel  construction.  Available

information  on  new  contracts  suggested a continuing  downtrend in

nonresidential  construction.

The nominal U.S. merchandise trade  deficit widened  substan-

tially  in  July to  a rate considerably above  its  average  in  the  second

quarter.  In  July,  the  value  of  imports  rose  sharply from a low

second-quarter  average;  the  rise was  concentrated  in  consumer  goods,

automobiles,  and  computers.  The  value  of exports  changed  little  in

July from a second-quarter  level  that was  high  compared  with other

recent  quarters;  the improvement  in  exports  in  recent months had  been

the  result  of  the  strong performance  of  capital  goods.  The pattern  of

economic  activity  in the major  foreign industrial  countries  continued

to  be mixed.  In western Germany  and Japan,  growth  fell  sharply in  the

second  quarter  and  apparently remained  slow  in  the  third  quarter,

while  economic  activity picked up  in  some  other  industrial  countries

in  the second  quarter.

Producer  prices  of  finished  goods were unchanged  over  July

and August  after  declining  on balance in  earlier  months  of  the  year.

Further  reductions  in  food  prices  in August,  notably  prices  of  fresh

fruits  and vegetables,  offset  a rebound  in the  prices  of  finished

energy goods.  Excluding food  and  energy, the increase  in  producer

prices  of  finished  goods  in the  twelve months  ended  in  August was

little  different from  the  rise over  the  previous  twelve  months.  At

the  consumer  level,  increases  in  prices were  small  in  July and  August

because  of  declines  in  the  prices  of  food  and  energy items.  Although

nonfood,  non-energy consumer  prices had  risen  somewhat  faster  in

recent  months,  the  twelve-month change in  this  index had  continued  to

edge  down.

At  its  meeting on  August  20,  1991,  the  Committee  adopted  a

directive that  called  for maintaining  the existing  degree of  pressure

on  reserve positions  and  that  also  provided  for  giving special weight

to  potential  developments  that might  require some  further  easing

during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly, the  Committee  decided

that  somewhat  greater  reserve restraint  might  be  acceptable or

somewhat  lesser  reserve restraint  would be  acceptable during the

intermeeting period depending on  progress  toward  price stability,

trends  in  economic  activity,  the behavior  of  the monetary aggregates,

and  developments  in foreign  exchange  and  domestic  financial  markets.

The  reserve conditions  contemplated at  the August  meeting were

expected to  be  consistent with  a resumption  in  the  growth  of M2  and M3

over  the balance  of the  third quarter.  However,  in  view  of  the

declines  in  these  aggregates  that had  taken  place since  June,  the

Committee anticipated  that,  over  the three-month  period  from June

through September,  M2  would  be  little changed  and  M3 would be  down  at

an  annual  rate  of  about  1 percent.

Open market operations  during  the intermeeting  period were

directed  initially toward  maintaining the  existing  pressures  on

reserve positions.  Subsequently,  on  September  13,  the  discount  rate

was  lowered by  1/2  percentage point  to  5 percent  and part  of this

decline was  allowed to  show through to  the federal  funds  rate.  Two

technical  decreases to  expected levels  of adjustment  plus  seasonal

borrowing were made  during the  intermeeting period to  reflect  the

abatement  of  seasonal  credit  needs.  Early in the  period,  adjustment

plus  seasonal borrowing averaged  nearly  $400  million.  Later,  in  part

because  of  the  decline  in  seasonal funding  needs,  the volume of

borrowing  slipped below $350 million.  The federal  funds  rate  averaged

around  5-1/2  percent during the first  part  of  the intermeeting period,

but  after  the discount  rate was  reduced,  the  federal funds  rate  edged

down  to a little above  5-1/4  percent.

In  the  period immediately after  the August  20  meeting, most

other  market  interest  rates  rose  slightly,  reflecting in part  the

absence  of  an  anticipated  easing of  monetary policy and  data  indica-

ting that the  expansion might  be  more robust  than  expected.  Treasury

bill  rates  also  were boosted by an unwinding  of the  flight to  quality

and  liquidity that  had  been  prompted  by the  attempted  coup in  the

Soviet  Union.  In  subsequent weeks, market  rates  declined  as  incoming

nonfinancial  and monetary indicators were  seen by market participants

as  portending a sluggish expansion,  reduced  inflation, and  an

associated easing  of monetary policy.  The average  commitment  rate on

fixed-rate mortgages  reached its  lowest  level  since  1977,  and the

prime  rate was  reduced by  1/2  percentage point  to  8 percent  after  the

easing of  monetary policy  in  mid-September.  The  trade-weighted  value

of  the dollar  in  terms  of  the  other  G-10  currencies  fell  sharply over

the  intermeeting period;  much  of  the  drop retraced  the  previous  run-up

associated with  the  attempted  coup  in  the  Soviet  Union  that  began

shortly before the  August meeting.

After  contracting in  July,  M2  was about  unchanged  in  August

and  September.  M3  declined further  in  July  and August  and  apparently

changed  little  in  September.  Both aggregates  were somewhat weaker

than  anticipated  at  the time  of the August meeting.  For the  year  thus

far,  expansion  of M2  and M3  had  been at  the  lower  ends  of  the

Committee's  ranges.

The  staff projection  prepared for  this meeting pointed to  a

sustained  recovery  in  economic  activity;  however,  because  of  per-

sisting  weaknesses  in  some  sectors  of  the  economy the  pace  of  the

expansion was projected  to  remain  subdued  compared with  past  cyclical

experience  and  the  risks  of  a different  outcome seemed  to  be mostly on

the  downside.  Consumer  spending was  expected  to  continue to  provide

much  of  the impetus to  the  expansion, but  a swing  from inventory

liquidation to  modest accumulation was  projected  to  supply  an

additional  boost to  economic  growth  during the  quarters  immediately

ahead.  As  the stimulus  from the swing  in inventories  began to wane

during  the course  of  1992,  spending  for  business  equipment was

projected  to  strengthen to  some  extent.  Housing  construction also

would provide  some  stimulus  over  the  projection horizon.  Further

declines  in  the construction  of  commercial  structures  were  expected  to

inhibit the  economic  expansion.  Additionally,  real purchases  of  goods

and  services by  the federal  government were  assumed to  be  on  a mildly

declining trend,  and  spending  by many  state  and  local  governments was

expected to  be  constrained by  severe  budgetary  problems.  The  persist-

ing  slack in  labor  and  product markets,  while diminishing  over time,

was  projected to  restrain  the  rise in  labor  costs  and  to  foster  some

slowing  in  the underlying trend  of  inflation.

In  the  Committee's review of  prevailing and prospective

economic  developments, members  observed  that  the mixed nature of  the

recent  economic  information and the uneven  economic  conditions  in

different  parts  of  the  country made  it  particularly  difficult  to

assess  the  overall  state  of the  economy.  They generally  concluded

that,  on balance, the  evidence was  consistent with a continuing though

still sluggish  recovery  in  economic  activity and  that  the prospects

remained favorable  for  a sustained  expansion at  a moderate pace  over

the next  several quarters.  Many  commented, however,  that  the  risks  to

the  expansion  appeared to  be tilted  at  least  marginally to  the

downside.  Those risks  were felt  to  stem especially from a variety  of

financial  strains  in  the  economy, and  several members  also  indicated

that  they were uneasy about the potential  implications  of the ongoing

weakness  in broad  measures  of money and  credit.  With  regard to the

outlook for  inflation, many of  the members  expressed confidence that

the  relatively moderate  rate  of  expansion in  economic  activity that

they anticipated was  likely to  be associated with appreciable progress

in reducing the core  rate of  inflation over  the  next several  quarters.

In  the  course  of  the  Committee's  discussion, members

commented  that  the anecdotal  reports  on  economic  conditions  and  on

business  and  consumer  sentiment continued  to  have a generally negative

tone  that did not  appear to  be  fully consistent  with the available

economic  statistics.  To  a degree, business  attitudes seemed to

reflect  perceptions  of  little  momentum in  business  activity  and

related  concerns about  the  outlook for  profits.  On  the  positive  side,

business  conditions  in  some areas  were contributing  to  some  optimism,

at  least  among business  managers whose activities tended to  be  limited

to local  markets,  and the  performance  of  the  stock market  continued  to

provide  evidence of  confidence on  the part  of  many investors.

Turning to the  outlook for key  sectors  of the  economy,

members  noted that  despite  reports  of  quite  weak  retail  sales  in  some

parts  of  the country,  real  consumer  outlays  had  been trending upward

on  an  overall basis  since  the  early part  of  the  year, and  in the

absence  of a new adverse  shock to  consumer  confidence, consumers  were

likely  to  continue  to  provide  important  support  to  the  overall

economic  expansion.  However,  the  extent  of  that  support might  remain

somewhat  limited because consumer  sentiment was  still  cautious  amid

concerns  about  employment  opportunities  and  personal  debt  burdens.  In

the  circumstances,  retailers  in many areas  anticipated  relatively

sluggish  sales  during  the  upcoming holiday season.  In the  context  of

an  already low saving rate,  the  outlook for  retail  sales  would

continue  to  hinge  on  growth  in disposable incomes  and the  latter  in

turn would tend  to  be  constrained by  the moderate growth that  was

anticipated  in  overall  economic  activity.

The members  continued to  anticipate that  a turnaround  from

inventory liquidation  to  at  least modest  accumulation would stimulate

the  economy  in  the  quarters ahead.  Available data  and  anecdotal

reports  suggested  that  overall nonfarm business  inventories  had

continued to  decline through  July  and  probably  over  the  third  quarter

as  a whole.  With  stocks  now at  generally  low levels,  a pickup  in

final  demands,  including expected  further  growth  in  exports,  was

likely  to  foster  some tendency to  rebuild  inventories.  Looking

further  ahead,  some  concern was  expressed that,  once the  expected

swing  in  inventories  began to  abate next  year  in  line with  the usual

cyclical  pattern,  other  sources  of  economic  stimulus  might  not

materialize  to the  extent  needed to  support continued  economic  growth

at  an  adequate  pace.  On  the  other hand,  some members  observed that

both  the economic  statistics and  reports  from business  contacts were

consistent with  some pickup  in business  spending  for  equipment,  which

could  well  strengthen  further  as  the  recovery matured.

Residential  construction  also  seemed  likely to  provide some

ongoing  stimulus  to the  expansion.  While this  sector  appeared to  have

lost  some momentum during the  summer  months,  declines  in mortgage

interest  rates  along with  anticipated moderate  growth in  overall

economic  activity and  incomes pointed  to  a gradual uptrend  in  housing

construction.  The prospective strength  of  housing activity was viewed

as  likely to be  tempered,  however,  by  continuing weakness  in the

multifamily market;  the  latter was  adversely affected  by high vacancy

rates  in many  local  areas  and  over  time by  a slower  pace  of  family

formations.

Among the  negative developments  that could  be  expected  to

limit  the strength  of  the  overall  economic  expansion was the outlook

for  commercial  construction.  Indeed,  the overbuilt  condition  of

commercial space  in major markets  around the  country portended  an

extended period  of weak activity in  this  sector  of the  economy.  There

were,  nonetheless,  anecdotal reports  that  sale  prices  of  commercial

real  estate might  be stabilizing  in  some  areas  and  that  new and

renewal  lease prices  were no  longer  declining  in  some  markets and

indeed might  have  begun to  edge  up.  The  government  sector  also was

seen  as  likely to  exert  some  restraint  on  the  overall  expansion.

Federal government  spending for  goods  and  services  appeared  to  have

swung  into a gradual  downtrend associated with  cutbacks  in  defense

spending.  At the  same time,  the  budgetary difficulties  affecting many

state  and  local  governments were likely  to  continue to  constrain the

overall  growth  in  state and  local  government spending.

Many of  the members  referred  to  the  potential  impact  of

financial  conditions  on the  outlook for  economic  activity.  In  some

important  respects,  financial developments  could  be viewed  as

favorable.  Financial markets were  receptive to  new financing  activity

as  evidenced by  the  large volumes  of  stock  and bond  issuance.

Moreover, the balance  sheets  of many financial  institutions were

improving;  banks,  for  example,  were making considerable  efforts  to

increase  their  capital, work out  problem loans,  and  rationalize  their

operations.  On  the  other hand,  the  balance sheets  of  many business

firms  like those  of a significant portion  of  households were  burdened

by heavy debt  loads.  Furthermore, many  contacts  referred  to the

continuing problems  of  small  and  medium size businesses  in  securing

financing to  carry  on  or  expand  their  operations.  In this  regard,  it

was  difficult to  assess  the extent to  which the weakness  in  loan

-10-

extensions  through  financial  intermediaries  reflected  unwarranted

constraints  on  credit  supplies  as  opposed to  a lack  of  demand  from

qualified  borrowers.  Reports  from  several parts  of  the  country tended

to  suggest  that,  while to  some  extent  credit  standards  had been

tightened  further  this  year,  lenders  remained  willing to  provide

financing to  credit-worthy borrowers.  On  balance, while the members

differed in  their appraisals  of  the  severity  and  possible implications

of  the  financing  problems  of  borrowers without  access to  financial

markets,  they agreed  on the need  for  careful monitoring  of  the

availability of  adequate  credit  to  support a sustained  economic

recovery.

The members  continued to  view the  outlook  for  inflation  as

favorable.  The moderate rate  of  economic  expansion  anticipated  over

the  forecast horizon was  expected  to  be  associated  with  enough  slack

in  productive resources  to  accommodate  further  downward  adjustments  in

the  underlying rate  of  inflation.  Competition  from foreign  producers

was  likely to  remain substantial  in  many domestic  markets.  Indeed,

overall  competitive pressures  and  resistance  to price  increases  were

strong  in  key markets  and  provided  a promising setting  for  progress

toward  price  stability.  From a different  perspective,  a number  of

members  observed  that  the  lagging growth  in  money, at  least  as

measured  by M2  and  M3,  had  favorable  implications  for  prices  over  the

longer  run.  In  particular,  it was  suggested that  the  restrained

growth in  money  over  recent years would  tend to  foster  lower  inflation

while  providing  liquidity  sufficient  to  sustain a moderate  rate  of

economic  expansion.

In  the Committee's  discussion  of  policy for  the  intermeeting

period,  all  of the members  indicated  that  they were  in  favor of

maintaining an  unchanged  degree of pressure on  reserve positions.

-11-

While  the  economy was  subject  to  an  unusual  array of  problems and

related  uncertainties,  the members  generally felt  that  monetary policy

was  on  the right  course under  currently prevailing  and  immediately

forseeable  economic  and  financial  circumstances.  In  particular,

insofar  as  could  be  judged  at  this  point,  the present  policy  stance

provided  an appropriate  balance between  the  risks  of  a faltering

economic  expansion and  the  risks  of  little  or  no  progress  toward price

stability.  The  easing  steps  in  recent months  and  the associated

declines  in  interest  rates,  including mortgage  rates,  appeared to  have

supplied more monetary  stimulus than  had yet  shown through  to  the

economy.  Several  members  commented,  however,  that  the Committee

needed  to  remain  particularly alert  to  indications  of  renewed

weakening in business  activity, especially  given  the current  financial

fragilities  in  the  economy and  the  likely  difficulty of  reviving the

economy  in  the  event  of  another  downturn.  Other  members  gave  somewhat

more  weight to  the  need to  avoid  over-stimulating the economy;  a

failure to  take  advantage  of  the  apparent momentum toward lower

inflation would  have seriously adverse  consequences  on  longer-term

debt  markets  and  the  outlook for  sustained  economic  growth.  The

members  agreed that  a  steady policy  course was  desirable  for  now while

the Committee assessed  the  economy's  responses  to  its  earlier  easing

actions.

In  the  course  of  the  Committee's discussion, the members

expressed  varying  degrees  of  concern  about  the  continuing weakness  in

the  broader  monetary aggregates  and  overall  credit  growth.  It  was

clear  that  a significant restructuring  of household  and  business

balance  sheets was  occurring that  partly  involved adjustments  to the

unusually rapid  buildup  of  debt  during  the 1980's  and  that  such

restructuring  was  being reflected  in  the  behavior  of the broader

-12-

monetary aggregates.  Resolutions  of  insolvent thrift  institutions,

which  in  recent months  had  resumed  in volume,  also were acting to

depress  M2  as  well  as  M3.  In addition,  the more  liquid  components  of

the monetary aggregates were growing  relatively strongly.  Under these

circumstances,  slow growth  in broader  money and  credit did  not

necessarily indicate that  monetary policy was  being too  restrictive by

damping  the  expansion  of  incomes  or  curtailing demands  for  goods and

services.  Moreover,  a staff  analysis  prepared for  this  meeting

indicated  that  some  recovery in the  growth  of  these aggregates  could

be  expected  over  the balance  of  1991,  assuming an  unchanged  degree  of

pressure in  reserve markets.  Nonetheless, many  of the  members  felt

that  the behavior  of  M2  and M3, whose  growth for  the  year to  date  was

at  the bottom of the Committee's  ranges,  needed to  be monitored with

special  care  and,  at  least  in  one view, that  some  further  easing

measures might  be  desirable in  the near  term to  improve the  prospects

that  monetary expansion  for  the year  would be within  the Committee's

ranges.

Turning to  possible  adjustments  to  the degree  of  reserve

pressure during the intermeeting  period,  a majority of  the  members

indicated  a preference  for  a directive  that  was  biased  at  least

marginally  toward  easing.  Such  a bias was  called  for  in  this  view by

the downside risks  in  the  economy, though  a number  of these members

also felt  that there  should be  no  strong presumption  that  any  easing

would  be undertaken  during the  intermeeting  period  ahead.  The  other

members  indicated  that  they could  support  an  asymmetric  directive

toward  ease though  they preferred  a symmetric  intermeeting  instruc-

tion,  especially in the  context  of  the further  stimulus that  could  be

expected to  result  over  time  from the  earlier monetary easing  actions.

-13-

At  the conclusion  of the Committee's  discussion,  all  of  the

members  indicated  that  they favored a directive that  called  for  main-

taining the  existing degree  of pressure  on reserve  positions.  They

also  noted their preference  or  acceptance  of a directive  that  included

a slight  bias toward possible  easing  during the  intermeeting period.

Accordingly, the Committee  decided that  slightly  greater reserve

restraint might be  acceptable  during the  intermeeting period  or

slightly  lesser  reserve restraint would be  acceptable depending on

progress  toward  price  stability, trends  in  economic  activity, the

behavior  of  the monetary aggregates,  and  developments  in  foreign

exchange and  domestic  financial markets.  The  reserve  conditions

contemplated  at  this meeting were  expected to  be  consistent  with

growth  of M2  and  M3  at  annual  rates  of  around  3 percent  and  1-1/2

percent  respectively  over  the three-month period  from September

through December.

At the  conclusion  of  the meeting, the  following  domestic

policy directive was issued to  the Federal Reserve  Bank  of  New York:

The information  reviewed  at  this  meeting has  been

mixed,  but  it  suggests  on  balance  that  economic
activity has  been expanding at  a moderate pace.  Total
nonfarm payroll  employment  changed  little over  July  and
August,  and  the  civilian unemployment rate was  6.8
percent  in  both months.  Employment  in  manufacturing
continued to  advance  in August,  and  industrial
production  posted  a further  rise  after  several  months
of  sizable  gains.  Consumer  spending  increased
considerably on  balance in  July and  August.  Recent
data  on  orders  and  shipments  of  nondefense  capital
goods  point to  a small  increase in  real  outlays for
business  equipment, but  nonresidential construction  has
remained weak.  Housing starts  rose  only slightly
further  in  July  and August  after  increasing appreciably
on  balance since  January.  The nominal  U.S. merchandise
trade deficit widened  substantially  in  July and was
considerably above its  average  rate  in  the second
quarter.  Increases  in  consumer  prices have  been  small
in  recent months,  owing to  declines  in  food and  energy
prices.

-14-

Most  interest  rates have  declined further  since

the  Committee meeting  on August  20.  The Board  of
Governors  approved  a reduction in  the discount  rate
from 5-1/2  to 5 percent  on  September  13.  The trade-
weighted value  of  the  dollar  in terms  of the  other
G-10  currencies  fell  sharply  over  the  intermeeting
period;  much  of the  drop  retraced  the previous  run-up
associated with the  attempted  coup  in the Soviet  Union
that  began  shortly before  the August  Committee meeting.

After  contracting  in  July, M2  was  about  unchanged

in  August  and  September.  M3  declined further  in  July
and  August  and  is  indicated  to  have  changed  little  in
September.  For the year  thus  far,  expansion  of M2  and
M3  has  been  at  the  lower  end  of the  Committee's  ranges.

The Federal Open Market  Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial conditions  that will foster  price  sta-
bility  and promote  sustainable  growth in  output.  In
furtherance  of these  objectives, the  Committee  at  its
meeting in  July reaffirmed the  ranges  it  had  estab-
lished  in  February for  growth  of  M2  and M3  of  2-1/2  to
6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent,  respectively,
measured  from the  fourth  quarter  of  1990  to  the fourth
quarter  of  1991.  The  monitoring range for  growth  of
total domestic  nonfinancial  debt  also was maintained  at
4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  the  year.  For  1992,  on  a
tentative basis,  the Committee agreed  in  July to  use
the  same  ranges  as  in  1991  for  growth  in  each  of  the
monetary  aggregates  and debt,  measured  from the  fourth
quarter  of  1991  to  the  fourth  quarter  of  1992.  With
regard to  M3,  the  Committee  anticipated  that  the
ongoing  restructuring  of  thrift  depository institutions
would continue  to  depress  the  growth  of this  aggregate
relative to  spending and  total  credit.  The behavior  of
the  monetary aggregates will  continue  to  be  evaluated
in the  light  of  progress toward  price level  stability,
movements  in  their  velocities,  and  developments  in the
economy and  financial  markets.

In  the  implementation of  policy  for  the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks  to  maintain the  existing
degree of  pressure  on  reserve  positions.  Depending
upon  progress toward  price  stability, trends  in
economic  activity, the  behavior  of the monetary
aggregates,  and  developments  in  foreign exchange  and
domestic financial  markets,  slightly  greater  reserve
restraint might  or  slightly lesser  reserve restraint
would  be  acceptable  in the  intermeeting  period.  The
contemplated  reserve conditions  are  expected to  be
consistent  with  growth of  M2  and M3  over  the period
from September  through December  at  annual  rates  of
about  3 and  1-1/2  percent,  respectively.

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan,  Angell, Black,  Forrestal, Keehn,
Kelley, LaWare, Mullins,  and  Parry.

Votes  against  this  action:  None.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For Use at  4:30 p.m. 

November  16,  1990

The  Federal  Reserve Board and the Federal  Open Market

Committee today released the attached  record of policy actions

taken by the Federal  Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

October  2, 1990.

The  record for  each meeting of the  Committee is  made

available  a few days  after the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published in the  Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the  Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description of

economic  and financial  conditions  contained in each  record is

based solely on the  information that  was available to the

Committee at  the time  of  the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF POLICY ACTIONS OF THE
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held on October 2, 1990

Domestic policy directive.

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggested that

economic activity had expanded at  a slow  pace in the third quarter.  The

available  data provided only  limited evidence of a retarding effect  of

the  recent  large increase in oil  prices  on production and aggregate

spending.  Key measures of  inflation had been boosted by the  rise  in oil

prices, but  on the consumer level the upward march in prices of  items

other than  food and energy also appeared to have quickened  somewhat.

Data on labor costs  suggested no improvement  in underlying trends.

Total nonfarm payroll employment  declined in July and August,

largely because of layoffs  of temporary census workers.  Employment  in

the private  sector was little  changed over the two months as  widespread

declines in  jobs  at manufacturing and  construction establishments

offset  limited gains in the  service-producing sector.  In the weeks

after the August employment  survey,  initial claims  for  unemployment

insurance moved into  a slightly higher range than had prevailed in the

preceding  few months.  The  civilian unemployment  rate  edged up to 5.6

percent  in August.

After  showing strong gains  over the previous two months,

industrial production was about  flat  on balance in  July and August.

Output  of construction supplies  continued to fall,  but  production of

consumer goods  other than motor vehicles firmed a bit  on balance after

declining earlier in the year.  Total industrial  capacity utilization

slipped in July and August.  In manufacturing, operating rates declined

further  in most  industries and were  appreciably below year-earlier

levels.

Consumer  spending in real terms was up  slightly on balance  in

July and August;  however, averaged over the  two months, spending was

significantly above  the  level for the  second quarter.  Outlays  for

services  rose  in August  at  a pace well  below that  registered over the

previous  several months.  Spending for motor vehicles  and parts  fell,

but outlays  for other consumer  goods posted moderate increases.  Major

surveys of  consumer attitudes indicated a sharp  deterioration in the

confidence  of consumers.  Total  private housing starts  declined for the

seventh consecutive month.  Single-family starts  slid  further, evidently

in response to  continued weakness  in  sales of  new homes.

In August, shipments of nondefense  capital goods  retraced part

of  a large  July decline.  Average shipments  for the  July-August period

were  below their second-quarter  level,  which suggested that  overall

equipment spending remained in a relatively flat  trend.  Shipments  of

office and computing equipment appeared to be  somewhat  weaker, while

shipments of aircraft  in July were well  above their  second-quarter

average.  New orders  for  nondefense capital goods  changed little  in July

and August  from their  level in the  second quarter, which pointed to

continued sluggish equipment spending in coming months.  Nonresidential

construction put  in place increased in June and July, but  anecdotal

information and other  indicators suggested a downward  trend in

nonresidential building activity,  reflecting the  persistence  of high

vacancy rates  for  commercial properties and the  financial pressures on

builders  and their lenders.  Manufacturing inventories  rebounded  in July

from a sizable  June  decline;  the  stock-shipments  ratio remained near the

lows  of the current  business expansion.  Wholesale  and non-auto retail

trade  inventories  expanded in July at  a pace near the average rate  of

accumulation over the second quarter.

The  nominal U.S. merchandise trade deficit widened sharply in

July from the  revised, unusually low rate  in June.  The value of exports

more than retraced its  sizable  June  pickup, with decreases widespread

among major trade categories  that  had risen in June.  The  value of

imports  increased in July for  a range of commodities,  but  the total

remained below peak monthly rates  reached earlier in the year.  Higher

oil  imports  in July reflected a rise  in the quantity of oil  imported as

prices  paid edged lower that  month before turning up in August  and

September  in response to  developments  in the Middle  East.

Markedly higher domestic oil  prices in August  contributed to

substantial  increases  that month in producer and consumer prices.

Producer prices of  finished goods reflected a rapid pass-through of the

higher oil  costs  into consumer energy products.  Prices  of non-energy,

nonfood items  rose  in August  at  about the moderate average monthly pace

evident thus  far this year.  Consumer prices  surged in August,  largely

reflecting the  higher oil prices.  Excluding food and energy  items,

consumer inflation had picked  up in July and August  from the  second-

quarter rate;  the  acceleration resulted from price advances  for  non-

energy  services as  prices of  commodities  flattened out  in August  after

rising moderately in July.  Average hourly earnings rose  in August  at  a

little  slower pace;  however, over the twelve months ended in August,

hourly earnings increased at  about  the  same  rate  as that recorded during

the previous twelve months.

At  its meeting on August  21,  the  Committee adopted a directive

that called  for maintaining unchanged conditions  of reserve avail-

ability, at  least  initially, in the  intermeeting period ahead and that

provided for giving emphasis to potential  developments that might

require  some easing later in the period.  Accordingly, the directive

indicated that  slightly greater reserve  restraint might  be acceptable

during the  intermeeting period, while some  easing of reserve pressure

would be acceptable, depending on progress toward price  stability, the

strength of the business  expansion, the behavior  of  the monetary

aggregates,  and developments in foreign  exchange and domestic  financial

markets.  The  reserve conditions  contemplated by the Committee were

expected to be  consistent with growth of M2  and M3  at  annual  rates of

about  4 and 2-1/2 percent  respectively over the three-month period from

June  to  September.

With price pressures,  even outside of  the energy  sector, not

abating and the  economy continuing to advance,  albeit  slowly, open

market  operations  during the  intermeeting period were  directed at

maintaining unchanged reserve  conditions.  In  the  three reserve

maintenance periods  completed since the August meeting, adjustment plus

seasonal borrowing averaged about  $800  million, an amount  inflated by

circumstances that gave  rise to  sharply higher  federal funds  rates and

unusually heavy adjustment  credit extensions  on the  final  day of each of

these maintenance periods.  The  federal  funds  rate  generally remained

near 8 percent  over the intermeeting period, but  it  edged higher late  in

-5-

the  period in the  context of  quarter-end pressures and more  cautious

reserve management policies at  some banks.  Treasury bill  rates  fell

somewhat  over  the  intermeeting period, apparently reflecting heightened

investor preference for  liquidity and  safety, while  rates  on  private

market instruments  changed little  on balance.  In  the bond markets,

yields on  investment-grade  securities  edged  down.  Interest  rates  on

lower-rated instruments rose  considerably, as  higher oil prices  were

seen as  presaging a sluggish  real  economy and  greater  strains  on issuers

of  such debt.  In  addition, yields  on  subordinated debt  obligations of

some major banking organizations increased  sharply, reflecting growing

investor  concerns  about  the  effects of  softening real  estate values  and

sluggish economic  activity on the quality  of bank  loan portfolios.

Broad  indexes  of  stock prices moved lower over the  period.

The trade-weighted  foreign exchange value  of  the  dollar in

terms  of the  other G-10  currencies declined  slightly  further on balance

from the  low level  reached at  the time  of  the  August meeting.  The

dollar  changed little  against most  major currencies, but  it  depreciated

substantially against  the  yen as  monetary conditions were  tightened

further in  Japan in  response to continued  strength  in  economic activity

and potential  price pressures  in that  country.  Economic  growth in  the

other G-10  countries  slowed, on  average,  in  the  second quarter, but

recent  indicators  suggested a rebound in  some  of  those  countries.

M2  expanded at  an appreciably faster  rate  in August,  and

available data  suggested continued strength  in  September.  M3  also

accelerated in August,  but  its  growth  appeared to  have slowed  somewhat

in  September.  More rapid  expansion of M1  and  a surge  in money market

funds,  as  investors  apparently  switched out  of the  stock and bond

markets, contributed to the  greater  strength of the broader aggregates

over the two months.  Through September,  expansion of M2  was  estimated

to be  a little  below the middle  of the  Committee's range  for the  year,

and growth of M3  was  in the  lower portion of its  range.  Expansion of

total domestic nonfinancial  debt  appeared  to have  been near the midpoint

of  its monitoring  range.

The  staff projection was  prepared against  the background of

unpredictable  developments  in the Middle East  and the  substantial

adverse  effects  of high oil prices  on domestic inflation and economic

activity.  While  it  was  recognized that  a range  of plausible assumptions

could be made about  the prospective  behavior of oil  prices,  the

projection  assumed no further major disruption to oil  supplies and an

appreciable  drop in oil  prices in the  first  half  of next  year as

production expanded world-wide  to fill  the void  left by  Kuwait and Iraq.

In the  interim, the retarding effects of higher energy  costs would

depress the  growth of  real  disposable  incomes  and  consumer  spending.

Weaker consumer demand along with uncertainty about the  outlook would

retard business  capital  spending.  Construction spending--both

residential  and nonresidential--was  expected to  continue to decline,

reflecting the effects of  softer housing prices,  reduced credit

availability, and high vacancy rates  for  commercial structures.  Under

the  circumstances,  a mild downturn  in overall  economic activity was

projected for the  near term.  However, the  staff continued to  anticipate

considerable  growth  in exports  over the  next  several quarters  in

conjunction with  further economic expansion in several major foreign

-7-

industrial  nations and in  response to the  substantial depreciation that

had occurred in the foreign exchange value  of the dollar.  The impetus

from the  external sector  and a rebound in consumer expenditures  fostered

by the assumed drop in oil prices in coming  quarters would bring a

resumption of moderate economic growth.  The projection assumed that

deficit  reduction measures about  in line with the proposal  now before

the Congress would be adopted.  The outlook for  inflation remained

clouded by the very uncertain prospects  for  oil prices.  The  sizable

decline  in oil prices  projected for next  year along with the opening  up

of  slack in resource utilization would foster  a lower rate  of  consumer

price  inflation, but  the improvement  would be  limited by the  lagged

effects of the  decline that had occurred  in the  foreign exchange value

of the dollar.

In the  Committee's discussion of the  economic situation and

outlook, members  commented that  despite weaknesses  in some  sectors  of

the economy  and parts  of the  country, overall  economic activity appeared

to be  continuing to  expand, although at  a relatively slow pace.  Many of

the members observed that,  insofar as  could be  judged  on the  basis of

traditional indicators,  the available  data did not  point to cumulating

weakness and the  onset  of a recession.  At  the  same time,  however, the

risks of a recession were  felt  to have  increased.  These risks stemmed

to an important  extent  from developments in the  Middle East  and the

continuing financial  strains  in the economy that  were  adding to

stringency in  credit markets.  Business and consumer  confidence appeared

to have  deteriorated considerably, especially  since early August.  The

members generally agreed that  some  tendency for economic  growth to

moderate and inflation to worsen for  a time could not  be avoided as a

result of oil  price developments.

Despite  the relatively limited growth of the  economy and the

apparent  fragility of the expansion, the  prospects for inflation were

viewed with concern.  To a considerable  extent,  recent  increases in key

measures of  inflation reflected the pass-through effects  of the  surge in

oil prices,  but many of the members  felt that  the underlying  rate  of

inflation also  had worsened even  apart  from the  effects of higher oil

prices.  Reduced pressures on  resources would help to  contain

inflationary forces, but there was  still  some  risk that  upward movements

of oil and import  prices would intensify inflationary expectations,

fostering increases in wages  and other costs that would become more

deeply embedded in the  cost  structure  of the economy.

Many of the members observed that the  recently negotiated

federal budget  proposal  incorporated a significant  degree of  fiscal

restraint,  a potentially workable  enforcement mechanism, and  a desirable

multi-year  commitment.  Final  enactment  of a budget  along the  lines of

the proposal would establish a sounder basis  for a satisfactory

performance of the  economy.  However, the  federal budget deficit  would

still be  extraordinarily large,  and the commitment  to enforce  fiscal

restraint measures  in the  future  remained to be tested.

In the course  of the  Committee's discussion, members focused

considerable attention on developments  in  credit markets.  The  financial

strains being experienced currently by many lending institutions

reflected especially the problems  in the real  estate sector,  although

the buildup in earlier years of  debt  owed by less  developed countries

and the tenuous condition of  some highly leveraged domestic business

firms  tended to  aggravate current difficulties.  Efforts  by banks and

other  lenders to protect  or  improve  their capital positions  in the  face

of deteriorating  loan portfolios were  reflected in  widespread signs  of

growing constraints  on the  availability of  credit  and increases  in its

cost,  especially to less than prime borrowers that  lack direct  access to

securities markets.  This pullback was not  limited to domestic  lenders;

foreign institutions, which previously had been quite  aggressive

suppliers  of  funds  to U.S.  credit markets,  now seemed  less  willing to

fill the  gap  left  by domestic  lenders.  It  was  difficult  to  judge  the

extent  of  the  reduced availability of  credit  because  the weakness  in

loan growth also  reflected an apparently  substantial  cutback  in  the

demand  for  credit.  In  the  view of  a number of members,  the exposure  of

the economy to a severe  downturn in business activity did not  stem in

present  circumstances  from potential  adjustments of  the  usual cyclical

kind to  overcapacity and overproduction, including excessive inventories

in  relation to orders  and  sales,  but  from the  possible  aggravation of

the  strains in  financial markets,  further  retrenchment  in  lending by

banks  and others,  and the  increased difficulty of many heavily indebted

businesses and  individuals  to meet and  service their debt  obligations  in

a sluggish economy.  On the  positive side,  the  financial system and the

economy continued to  display a remarkable  degree  of  resiliency, and  in

important  respects many  financial  institutions had  improved their

ability to  resist  adverse  developments by  raising capital and taking

-10-

corrective measures,  such as  adjusting their lending policies  and loan

portfolios.

In  their review of developments  in key  sectors of  the  economy

and  parts  of the  country, many  of the members  stressed that a con-

siderable divergence appeared to  have  developed between available

economic  indicators, which  suggested continued if  only  sluggish growth,

and deteriorating business  confidence.  Such business  attitudes  in

association with adverse  credit market  conditions  could lead to  efforts

to  curb  inventories and cut  back on investments  and  thus trigger the

recessionary conditions  that  underlay current  concerns.  While  business

activity clearly  seemed to  have  weakened in  some  areas  of  the  country,

slow to moderate growth continued to  characterize business  conditions  in

most parts of  the nation.

The prospects  for  consumer  spending remained a key  element in

the  outlook  for  the  economy.  Available  data  indicated that  real

consumer outlays in  July and August  were  well  above  the  second-quarter

average.  Nonetheless,  there  was evidence that  consumer  sentiment had

worsened  considerably in response to  a variety of  developments  including

a decline  in the value  of many consumer  assets,  especially homes  in

numerous  parts of  the country, the heavy debt  burdens of many consumers,

declining employment opportunities  in a number of  areas,  and more

generally the  reduced purchasing power  associated with rising prices of

energy.  These developments  appeared likely to  hold down consumer

spending for  some  period of time.  With regard to the  outlook  for

business  capital spending, commercial  construction would  continue to be

curtailed by widespread overbuilding and constraints  on  credit

-11-

availability.  More generally, business  concerns  about  a possible

recession and  sluggish consumer spending had induced a cautious approach

to planned investment  spending, although many producers of  capital  goods

reported that their orders, including demand from abroad, were

continuing to hold  up.  Nonetheless,  even  in the  oil  industry the  sharp

rise in  oil  prices  had elicited a quite  limited investment  response  to

date apparently because of  the uncertainties that  continued to  surround

the  outlook for  oil prices  and the difficulty  of  obtaining  skilled

labor, at  least  in  the  short  run.  The  outlook for  housing  construction

also was  restrained by soft  housing markets  and the  difficulties  that

many builders continued to  experience in  securing construction  loans.

On  the other  hand, business  inventories  generally appeared to be  at  or

near desired levels,  and while business contacts  around the  country

pointed to  increasingly  cautious inventory management policies,  there

was little  evidence  of any  current or  impending cyclical  inventory

adjustments of the  sort  that  had characterized past  recessions.  Areas

of current  or potential  strength in  the  economy included agricultural

conditions  in many parts  of  the  country and demand for  exports that

continued to  buttress many  industries.  The  substantial  decline  in the

foreign exchange  value  of the  dollar over  the past  year  and the

prospects  for relatively  strong economic  growth in  some  major  industrial

countries pointed to  further  improvement  in the nation's  exports,

although some members  questioned the potential  strength of  further

expansion in  some  key  foreign countries.

With  regard to the outlook  for inflation,  several members

commented that  inflation appeared to  have intensified  even apart  from

-12-

the  direct  effects  of the  higher oil prices.  There  were reports  of

business  efforts to  raise prices in  markets where demand was  relatively

vigorous,  though it  was  unclear  to what  extent  competitive  forces  would

permit  sizable  increases in prices to be  sustained.  More  generally,

members expected the  decline  in the value  of the  dollar to be  reflected

over time  in  greater pressure  on domestic prices.  Under  foreseeable

circumstances  and assuming no  sharp movements  in oil prices,  whose

course  remained highly uncertain, overall  prices were  likely to  remain

under upward pressure  for  some time, but the members still  anticipated

eventual  progress  in reducing inflation as  continued  sluggish  demand was

reflected in  diminished pressures on production resources.  A major

concern  in the  interim was that  the  rise  in oil  prices would become more

firmly entrenched in the  cost  structure  of the  economy, thereby making

more difficult  and delaying progress toward price  stability.

In the  Committee's  discussion of policy, a majority of  the

members  were in  favor of easing reserve  conditions  at  least  slightly

during the  intermeeting period ahead.  In their view, an  easing move  was

warranted in  light of  the  indications that  there  was  a significant  risk

of a much weaker economy, partly as  a consequence of  some  further

tightening in  the availability  of  credit  since mid-summer;  in this

context, moreover, the budget proposal, if  enacted, would  provide a

degree  of  fiscal  restraint.  Some of these members emphasized that  the

stronger expansion of the monetary aggregates  in  recent months did  not

seem to  reflect  a healthier intermediation process  or a more

accommodative monetary policy, but  rather  sizable  increases  in

components  of M2,  notably currency and money market  funds, that  under

-13-

prevailing circumstances appeared to be related to  uncertainty about

economic  and financial prospects and unsettlement in some  foreign

countries.  Growth in the  core components of M2 had remained sluggish,

and in the view of these members that  development tended to reinforce

the conclusion that  the overall  availability of  credit  had continued to

tighten.  In these  circumstances, many of the members  concluded that

some modest easing of reserve pressure would  represent  a stable  monetary

policy in the  sense that  such a move would serve  to maintain the

appropriate degree  of overall  credit  restraint.  In the view of most

members, any change  in reserve pressures  should be  limited in light of

the  danger of  leaning too  far  in either  direction in circumstances that

were  characterized by a sluggish economy and upward pressures on prices.

It  was  argued that  the  Committee  should not  try to offset,  indeed it

could not  avoid, some  tendency for  economic  growth to moderate  and for

inflation to  intensify as  a result  of the oil price  developments.  One

member gave more weight to the  recessionary  risks in the economy and

called  for the  prompt easing of reserve conditions, preferably by more

than a modest  amount,  although an acceptable compromise  in this view

would be a slight  easing move at this meeting to be  followed by some

further easing upon passage of the new budget.

Members who favored  some easing  of reserve  conditions agreed

that  it  would be  desirable to hold  such a move until passage of the

federal budget  package was more certain.  The  reasons  for the  easing

were not  keyed to the enactment  of the new  federal budget  alone  but more

broadly to  developments  in credit markets and the  economy, with the

prospects  for  fiscal  restraint only one element  in the outlook.

-14-

Nonetheless, market  participants expected a monetary policy response to

the  fiscal  policy actions, and a change  in monetary policy while the

latter were  still under consideration might  create unnecessary

uncertainty and unwarranted reactions  in financial markets.  The easing

could give rise  to expectations of a further move once the budget

package was  enacted.  In the view of  some members, however, associating

any easing move too  closely with a fiscal  policy action might  set  an

undesirable precedent  in terms of producing expectations of  similar

monetary policy adjustments in the  future.

A number of members expressed strong reservations about  any

easing of reserve  conditions  under prevailing circumstances.  In their

view even a modest  move toward ease  would be undesirable or  at  least

premature in the weeks ahead.  These members acknowledged the  risks of  a

weakening economy, but  they believed that policy should continue to

focus  on controlling inflation.  In  the absence of more evidence that

economic activity might deteriorate  substantially,  such a focus was

likely  to involve unchanged reserve conditions  for  a time.  In the

prevailing circumstances, they were  concerned that  any easing in the

near term would worsen inflationary expectations by tending to erode the

credibility of the  System's anti-inflationary effort.  Thus,  such easing

might  well have the  unintended effects of generating upward pressures on

long-term interest  rates and adding to the downward pressures on the

dollar  in foreign exchange markets.  In  support of this view,  some

members expressed satisfaction that  the overall expansion of M2  for the

year was well within the Committee's  target  ranges  and according to a

-15-

staff forecast was  likely to  remain comfortably within that  range

through year-end.

The members also discussed whether any  further adjustments in

policy  should be  contemplated for  the  intermeeting period in the  event

that  a decision was made to  implement  some modest  easing in the  near

term.  A majority opinion emerged in  favor of retaining a bias  in  the

directive  toward some  further easing, but  any such a move would need  to

take  account of the  response  to the initial  easing as  well as

developments  in the economy and credit  markets.

At the  conclusion of the Committee's discussion, a majority of

the members  indicated that they  favored or  could accept  a directive that

called for maintaining  the  existing degree  of pressure  on reserve

positions  for at  least  a short  period after this meeting.  It was

presumed that  some  slight  easing would be  implemented later in the

intermeeting period, assuming passage of  a federal budget  resolution

calling for a degree  of  fiscal  restraint  comparable to  that  now being

negotiated and the  absence of major unexpected economic or financial

developments.  Subsequently,  some  slight  further easing of reserve

conditions  could be  implemented if  such a move was  deemed to be

warranted by  incoming data on  economic and financial  conditions in the

context of an already sluggish  economy.  On the  other hand, the

Committee did not  rule  out  the potential  need for  some  slight  firming

should inflationary pressures appear to be  intensifying.  In keeping

with this  policy, the  directive provided that  slightly  greater reserve

restraint might be  acceptable during the intermeeting period or  somewhat

lesser  reserve  restraint would be acceptable  depending on progress

-16-

toward price  stability, the  strength of  the  business  expansion, the

behavior  of  the monetary aggregates, and developments  in  foreign

exchange and domestic  financial markets.  The  intermeeting range  for the

federal  funds  rate,  which provides one mechanism for  initiating

consultation of  the  Committee when its  boundaries  are  persistently

exceeded, was  left unchanged at  6 to  10  percent.

At  the  conclusion of the meeting, the  following  domestic policy

directive was  issued to the  Federal  Reserve  Bank of New York:

The  information  reviewed at this meeting suggests
that  economic  activity expanded at  a slow pace  in the
third quarter.  The  recent large  increase  in  oil
prices  has  boosted key measures of  inflation  and
eroded real personal  income;  however, data  available
thus  far provide only  limited evidence  of a retarding
effect on production and aggregate  spending.  Total
nonfarm payroll employment  declined in  July and
August, reflecting  layoffs of temporary  census
workers;  employment  in the  private  sector changed
little  over the  two months.  The  civilian unemployment
rate  edged up  to 5.6 percent  in August.  Consumer
spending appeared to be  about  unchanged in  real terms
over  July and August  but  was at  a level  significantly
above  the average  for  the  second quarter.  Advance
indicators  of  business capital  spending point  to  some
softening in investment  in  coming months.  Residential
construction  weakened further  in August.  The  nominal
U.S. merchandise trade deficit  increased  sharply in
July from the  low rate  in June.  Markedly higher oil
prices  contributed to  substantial increases  in
consumer and producer prices in August;  excluding
energy and food  items,  consumer  inflation has  picked
up from the  second-quarter rate.  Data  on  labor costs
suggest no  improvement  in  underlying trends.

In  short-term debt  markets, Treasury bill  rates
have fallen  somewhat  since  the  Committee meeting on
August  21,  while  rates on private market  instruments
are  little changed.  In the  bond markets, most  rates
have edged  lower on balance over  this period.  The
trade-weighted foreign  exchange value of  the dollar in
terms  of  the  other G-10  currencies has  declined
slightly further on balance  from the  low  level reached
at  the  time  of the August meeting.

-17-

M2 and M3 expanded at  appreciably  faster  rates  in
August;  available data for  September  suggest  continued
strength in M2 and some  slowing in  the growth of M3.
More  rapid expansion of Ml  and money market  funds has
contributed to  the greater  strength in the broad
aggregates over  the two months.  Through September,
expansion of M2 was  estimated to be  a little below the
middle of the Committee's  range  for the year and
growth  of M3  in the lower portion of  its  range.
Expansion of total domestic  nonfinancial  debt appears
to  have  been near the midpoint  of  its monitoring
range.

The  Federal Open Market  Committee  seeks monetary

and  financial conditions that will  foster price
stability, promote growth  in output  on a sustainable
basis, and contribute to an  improved pattern of
international  transactions.  In furtherance  of these
objectives,  the Committee at  its meeting  in July
reaffirmed the  range  it  had established in  February
for M2 growth of 3 to 7 percent, measured from the
fourth quarter  of 1989 to  the  fourth quarter  of  1990.
The  Committee  in July also retained the monitoring
range of  5 to  9 percent for the year that  it  had set
for growth of total domestic nonfinancial  debt.  With
regard to M3, the  Committee  recognized that  the on-
going restructuring of thrift  depository institutions
had depressed its  growth relative to  spending and
total credit more than anticipated.  Taking account  of
the  unexpectedly strong M3  velocity, the  Committee
decided in  July to reduce  the  1990  range  to  1 to  5
percent.  For 1991,  the Committee  agreed on pro-
visional ranges  for monetary growth, measured from the
fourth quarter of  1990  to the fourth  quarter of  1991,
of 2-1/2  to  6-1/2 percent  for M2 and  1 to  5 percent
for M3.  The  Committee tentatively  set  the  associated
monitoring range  for growth of total domestic non-
financial debt  at  4-1/2 to  8-1/2 percent  for 1991.
The behavior  of the monetary aggregates will  continue
to be evaluated in the  light  of progress toward price
level  stability, movements  in their velocities,  and
developments  in the economy and  financial markets.

In the  implementation of policy  for the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks to maintain the existing
degree of pressure  on reserve positions.  Taking
account of progress  toward price  stability, the
strength of  the business  expansion, the behavior  of
the monetary aggregates,  and developments  in  foreign
exchange and domestic  financial markets, slightly
greater reserve restraint might or  somewhat  lesser
reserve restraint would be  acceptable in the inter-
meeting period.  The  contemplated  reserve conditions

-18-

are  expected to  be consistent  with growth of M2 and M3
over the period  from September through December at
annual  rates of about  4 and 2 percent  respectively.
The Chairman may call  for  Committee  consultation if it
appears to  the Manager for Domestic Operations  that
reserve  conditions  during the period before the  next
meeting are  likely to be  associated with a federal
funds  rate persistently outside a range of  6 to  10
percent.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs. Greenspan,

Corrigan, Boehne,  Kelley, LaWare, Mullins,  and
Stern.  Votes against this action:  Messrs.
Angell, Boykin, Hoskins,  and Ms. Seger.

Ms. Seger dissented because she  favored an immediate easing of

reserve  conditions.  In her view, such  a move was  needed at  this time  in

light of the  spreading weakness  in the  economy, the growing difficulty

being experienced by many borrowers in obtaining credit,  and more

generally the  increasing  fragility of the  financial system.  She  also

felt  that  enactment  of the deficit-reduction measures now  under con-

sideration would provide  a desirable opportunity for  some  additional

easing later during the intermeeting period.

Messrs. Angell, Boykin,  and Hoskins  dissented because they were

opposed to  the easing of reserve  conditions  contemplated by the

majority.  Not only was there a presumption of  some  easing in the  near

term, but  the bias  in the language  of the directive suggested the

possibility of  some  further easing later in the  intermeeting period.  To

a considerable extent,  this policy seemed to be  a response  to  short-run

softening in the  economy that was  an inevitable outcome of  the

disruption to oil  supplies.  By paying close  attention to  those near-

term developments, the  Committee risked losing sight  of its  fundamental

objective of  controlling and ultimately bringing down inflation.

Moreover, the  timing of the prospective easing was linked to  fiscal

-19-

policy actions, and such a linkage could establish an undesirable

precedent that  could limit the  flexibility of monetary policy in the

future.  Mr. Hoskins also questioned the adequacy of the  fiscal policy

measures being considered in the Congress  and the desirability of

adjusting monetary policy in response to the  enactment  of those

measures.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For Use  at  4:30 p.m. 

August  24,  1990

The Federal Reserve  Board and the  Federal Open Market

Committee today released the  attached record of policy actions

taken by  the Federal  Open Market  Committee at  its meeting on

July 2-3,  1990.

The  record for each meeting of the  Committee is made

available a few days  after the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published in the  Federal Reserve Bulletin

and  the Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary description of

economic and financial  conditions contained in each record is

based  solely on the  information that was  available to the

Committee at the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF POLICY ACTIONS  OF THE

FEDERAL  OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held on July  2-3,  1990

Domestic  policy directive

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggested that

economic activity was  continuing to expand but  at  a relatively slow

pace.  Final  demands  seemed sluggish;  while  exports had  increased

further,  consumer  expenditures  had been  flat and  notable weakness  was

evident  in new housing and  nonresidential  structures.  Overall  increases

in business  inventories appeared to  have  been moderate, even though the

production of  goods had picked  up.  The  unemployment  rate  had  remained

in  a relatively low range despite  limited growth in employment.  An

unwinding in  recent months  of the  earlier  jump  in the  prices of  food and

energy had damped the  rise  in producer  and consumer prices,  but the

latest  data on wages  suggested  continued pressure on  costs.

Total nonfarm payroll employment  rose moderately in  May after a

small  decline  in April.  Job gains  in  services were muted over the two

months,  following  strong increases earlier;  factory employment continued

to ebb;  and construction payrolls,  after  surging during unseasonably

mild winter weather,  slipped below their level  of last  fall.  Nonfarm

payroll  employment had  grown relatively  slowly  on average  since

February,  and hiring by the  Census  Bureau had  accounted for  all  of the

increase.  Despite the  sluggish expansion of  employment  in recent

months, the  civilian unemployment  rate  was 5.3  percent  in May and had

remained  near  that  level  for more  than a year.

Industrial  production increased  substantially in May, largely

reflecting a rebound in the manufacture of  motor vehicles,  and the April

level of activity was  revised upward.  Production of consumer goods had

been relatively  sluggish thus  far  in  1990;  however, output  of business

equipment  had firmed as  notable gains  were  recorded in the  production of

aircraft  and information-processing equipment  and the output  of other

business equipment  retraced a decline  that  had occurred in  the second

half  of  last  year.  Recent  data on orders  for  durable goods  appeared to

be  consistent with a further modest  rise  in manufacturing activity in

coming months.  Total  industrial capacity  utilization edged higher  in

May to nearly  its  level  at  the  end of 1989;  in manufacturing, operating

rates  had changed  little on balance  this  year  as gains  in factory output

had about  matched the  expansion of  capacity.

Real personal consumption expenditures  in April and May were

little changed on balance  from their level  in the  first  quarter.

Expenditures  for  non-energy  services  rose more  slowly  in May, extending

the  pattern of  smaller  increases  that  had been registered on balance

this  year.  Outlays  for motor vehicles  declined, and  spending for  goods

other than motor vehicles fell  for  the  third straight  month.  Housing

starts were  about unchanged  in May after a substantial  decline  in  April.

The average  level  of  starts in the  April-May period was  substantially

below the  first-quarter pace.  This  recent drop  in  starts evidently

reflected  in part  a retracing of  the  earlier  surge  in  residential

construction associated  with mild winter weather, but  higher mortgage

rates  and some tightening of credit  availability to builders  also

appeared to  exert  a constraining effect.

Business  capital  spending appeared to  have  slackened  in  recent

months.  After a pickup  in the  first  quarter that  was paced by  strong

purchases  of office  and computing equipment,  outlays for  nondefense

capital  goods slowed  in April  and May, with notable weakness  evident in

purchases of nonelectrical  equipment.  Other than  for  aircraft  and

computers,  new orders  for nondefense capital  goods had advanced little

on balance this  year.  Following the  sizable gain earlier  in the year

associated with unseasonably mild weather, nonresidential construction

activity slowed on average  in March and April.  Construction of office

and other  commercial  buildings was  especially weak in the March-April

period, and  permits  and other  indicators of  future  activity suggested

continued softness.  At manufacturing and trade  establishments,

inventories  increased somewhat  in April  after  a decline  in the  first

quarter associated with a sharp paring of  stocks  of automobiles.  In the

manufacturing and wholesale  sectors, inventory-to-shipments ratios were

down in April  from year-end levels  and were around the middle of the

ranges  prevailing  in 1989.  Among retailers  of  goods other  than

automobiles, recent  increases in  inventories  in conjunction with

sluggish  consumer  spending had  led to  a reversal  of an earlier decline

in inventory-sales  ratios.

The nominal  U.S. merchandise trade deficit  narrowed further  in

April  from its  reduced average  rate  for  the  first  quarter.  Both  imports

and  exports  fell,  partly as  a result  of  less  trade  in automotive

products  with  Canada.  The  value of  oil  imports also  declined in April

as  oil  prices moved lower  and the volume  of imports  slackened after

surging earlier  in  the year.  In April,  the value  of exports  retraced

part  of its  sharp March  rise but nonetheless  remained at  a higher  rate

than  in the  first  quarter.  Measures  of  economic  activity in the major

foreign industrial nations  indicated  some pickup  in growth  in the  first

quarter.  Expansion was especially  strong in Germany and Japan, but

preliminary data  for  these two  countries  for  the  early part  of  the

second quarter  suggested a return to more moderate  growth.  Inflation in

the  foreign industrial countries  remained little changed on average

recently.

Producer prices of finished  goods  were unchanged on balance

over April and May as  energy prices declined and  food prices  registered

no net  change.  The  rate  of increase  for  goods  other  than food and

energy items was  held  down by manufacturers' discounts  for motor

vehicles.  Partly because of  declines  in  food and energy prices,

consumer  prices  rose more  slowly in April and May;  however, the average

rate of  increase  thus  far  this year  remained above  the  1989 pace.  Over

the April-May period, prices  of  nonfood, non-energy goods were  little

changed while prices  of non-energy  services  rose less  rapidly than

earlier in the year.  Average  hourly earnings  rose further in May, with

large  increases  recorded  in construction and in  overtime  in

manufacturing.  The  latest  data  on total employer  costs  for compensation

indicated that labor  costs  had increased more rapidly  in the twelve

months ended in March than in  the year-earlier period.

At  its  meeting on May  15,  1990,  the  Committee adopted a

directive that  called  for maintaining the  existing degree of  pressure on

reserve positions  and that did not  include any presumption regarding the

likely direction of  any intermeeting policy adjustments.  In considering

the  possible need  for  such adjustments, the  Committee agreed  that

primary weight  would continue to be  given to developments  bearing on the

inflation outlook;  accordingly, the  directive  indicated that  slightly

more or  less  pressure on reserve positions would be  appropriate during

the  period ahead depending on  progress toward price  stability, the

strength  of the  business  expansion, the  behavior of the monetary

aggregates, and developments  in  foreign exchange  and domestic  financial

markets.  Unchanged  reserve conditions  were  expected to  be  consistent

with  somewhat  slower  monetary expansion in the  second quarter than  had

been anticipated at  the  time of the March meeting, including growth  of

M2  and M3  at  annual  rates  of about  4 and  3 percent  respectively over the

period from March through June.

Open market  operations  in the  interval  since  the May 15  meeting

were directed at maintaining  unchanged  reserve conditions.  Adjustment

plus  seasonal borrowing  averaged nearly  $600  million over the the three

complete  reserve maintenance  periods  in the  intermeeting interval,  well

above the  level  registered in  the maintenance  period that  ended  just

after the May meeting.  Much of the  sharp  rise  in  borrowing reflected

the continued upswing in  seasonal  borrowing, for  which several technical

adjustments were made to  assumed levels  of  borrowing,  and a funding  need

at  a large bank  experiencing a temporary operational problem over a long

holiday weekend.  The  federal  funds  rate  stayed close  to  8-1/4  percent

over the  intermeeting period, and other  short-term market  rates  changed

little  from their mid-May levels.  In long-term debt markets,  interest

rates  declined  somewhat  on balance  as  markets  responded to  evidence  of

some  slowing  in the  economy  and to  indications that  the  chances  for

substantial  reductions  in  federal budget  deficits  had  improved.  These

factors  also  contributed to  a decline on balance over the  intermeeting

interval  in the trade-weighted value  of  the dollar  in terms of  the  other

G-10  currencies.

Both M2  and M3 declined  in May;  available  data  suggested a

partial  rebound in June  for M2  and little  change in M3.  The continuing

contraction of  deposits  at  thrift  institutions that  was  resulting  from

the  restructuring of the  thrift  industry was one  of  the  factors damping

the  growth of M2  and especially of M3.  Through June,  expansion of  M2

was  estimated to be  in the  lower portion of  its  range  for  1990,  and

growth of  M3  somewhat below its  range  for  the year.  Growth of total

domestic nonfinancial  debt  appeared to have been at  the midpoint of  its

monitoring range.

The  staff projection prepared for  this meeting  suggested that

the  economy would expand over the  remainder  of  1990  at  around the rate

estimated  for the  first  half  of the  year and at  a slightly faster pace

in  1991.  Consumer  demand  was projected to pick  up  a bit  after a weak

second quarter, with  spending  on  services  expected to  continue

increasing moderately and outlays  for goods  to rebound  somewhat.

Business  capital  spending  was projected to  strengthen a little;  however,

the extent  of the  bounceback would be  constrained by  low profit margins

associated with relatively slow growth  in  final  demands and reduced

levels of  capacity  utilization  along with weakness  in nonresidential

construction activity arising  from the  overbuilt  condition of many

commercial real estate markets around the  country and greater  caution on

the  part  of lenders.  The pace  of homebuilding was  expected to  remain

low, damped by  slow growth in  household incomes  and relatively high

borrowing costs.  Exports  of  goods  and  services were  projected to

increase  substantially but  to be accompanied by an acceleration of

imports.  Moderate  restraint  on expenditures  at  all  levels of government

was  assumed.  Price  inflation was  expected to ease  somewhat further,

following the bulge earlier  in the year, but  little improvement  was

anticipated in the underlying trend of  inflation.

In the Committee's discussion of  the  economic  situation and

outlook,  the members generally  saw  sustained but  subdued  growth in

economic activity as  a reasonable expectation for  the next  several

quarters.  While business  conditions  were  relatively depressed in some

sectors  of the economy and parts  of the  country,  business  activity was

better maintained  in other  areas,  and the economy as  a whole  gave  no

current  indications of  slipping into  a recession.  Many members

commented,  however, that the  risks appeared to be weighted in the

direction of a weaker-than-projected economic performance, especially in

the  context  of changing  conditions  in  credit  markets stemming  from the

financial difficulties  of many borrowers  and lending institutions.  With

regard to the  outlook  for  inflation, increases  in  key price measures  had

moderated  since  earlier in the year but  there  was  little  evidence of

significant  change in the  trend rate  of  inflation.  Nonetheless, the

members  generally  remained  confident that  some  progress  would begin to

be made  in  reducing the  underlying rate of  inflation during  the period

ahead, given their  expectations of  diminished pressures on labor and

capital resources.  Some  also  emphasized that  the moderate rate  of

money growth experienced this year, and  indeed for an extended period,

was  indicative  of  a sustained period  of monetary restraint  that

eventually should produce  a lower  rate of  inflation.

In  conformance  with the  usual  practice at  meetings  when the

Committee  considers  its  long-run objectives  for  growth  of the monetary

and debt  aggregates,  the members of the Committee  and the Federal

Reserve  Bank presidents  not currently  serving  as members  provided

individual projections of growth in real  and nominal GNP,  the rate  of

unemployment, and the  rate of  inflation for  1990  and 1991.  These

forecasts took account  of the  Committee's  policy of continuing moderate

restraint  on aggregate  demand to constrain  inflationary pressures over

time.  With  regard to growth  of  real GNP,  the  projections had central

tendencies  of  1-1/2  to 2 percent  for  1990 as  a whole and 1-3/4  to 2-1/2

percent  for  1991.  Forecasts of nominal GNP  converged  on growth rates  of

5-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  for  1990 and  5-1/4  to  6-1/2  percent  for 1991.

With output  expanding below potential,  the  members anticipated that

unemployment  would edge  up to  rates centering  around 5-1/2  to 5-3/4

percent  in the  fourth quarter  of  1990  and  5-1/2  to  6 percent in  the

fourth  quarter of 1991.  Some  easing of  pressures  on resources  would

help to damp  inflation slightly by  1991.  For  the  consumer price index,

the projections had central tendencies  of  4-1/2  to 5 percent for  1990

and  3-3/4 to  4-1/2  percent  for  1991.

Turning to  the  prospects  for  individual  sectors  of the  economy,

members  commented that,  with the possible exception  of  exports,  none

appeared likely to  provide appreciable  impetus  to the  expansion over  the

forecast  period.  Retail  sales  were weak in many parts of  the country;

and there were  indications  of some decline  in  consumer confidence  that

seemed to be associated with concerns  about  weakening real  estate  values

in many parts of the  country,  reduced employment  opportunities, and

persistent  reports  of financial problems  in the  economy.  In  the

circumstances, growth in  consumer  spending was  expected to  remain

relatively sluggish,  and while  retail  sales might well pick up  from

their  recently depressed  levels, there  was considerable  uncertainty

regarding the  outlook  for expenditures  for motor  vehicles and  other

consumer durables.  Construction  activity was being  inhibited in many

areas  by an  overhang of excess  capacity,  notably in  commercial real

estate  but  also in  housing, and to  some  extent by the  difficulties being

experienced  by builders in  securing financing.  Some members  expressed

concern that  building activity might weaken  further, and in any  event

this  sector  of the  economy was  believed likely to  remain depressed over

the  forecast  horizon.  At  the  same  time,  the outlook  for spending on

capital equipment appeared to  be  somewhat more promising, at  least  for

the  near term,  judging from the  recent  pattern of  new orders,  order

backlogs,  and reports  from industry contacts.  In addition, business

inventories  appeared to  be at  acceptable levels  in most  industries and,

unlike  the experience  in earlier business  cycles,  seemed to be providing

an element  of  stability in a period of adjustments  in major  industries

such as motor vehicles  and construction.  In  the view of  many members,

the outlook was  favorable  for  further  sizable increases  in exports  that

would help to  support U. S. production and  employment.  On balance,

however,  final demands,  including demands  from abroad, appeared  likely

to  support only  sluggish gains  in the  goods-producing sectors  of  the

economy, and the  service  industries  were  likely to  continue to  account

for much of  the  anticipated  increases in  output  and employment.

-10-

There also  was  discussion of  two  special  factors  that  added to

the  uncertainties bearing on the  economic  outlook.  One related to  the

unknown timing and extent  of  a possible  reduction in  the  federal budget

deficit  that the members  hoped would emerge  from current  discussions

between Congressional  and Administration officials.  Another was  the

uncertain  degree  to  which lenders  had cut  back on the availability of

credit  to  creditworthy borrowers.  The members  continued to  hear

numerous  reports that  some  businesses were  finding it  more difficult to

obtain  credit  from banks, notably builders  in many areas  but  also other

businesses,  including auto dealers,  in  some  parts of  the  country.  On

the  basis  of  still  fragmentary information, reduced  credit  availability

appeared to  have  had  some,  but  quite  limited,  effects on the  economy.

However,  a tightening of  credit  standards could affect  credit  flows and

spending  with a lag and, in  addition, there was  some  concern that the

trend to greater restraint  in  the provision of  credit might  continue.

With regard to the outlook  for prices and wages,  the apparent

lack  of  progress  in  reducing the underlying  rate of  inflation was a

major  source  of  disappointment, but  the members  continued to anticipate

some  deceleration in  the  core  rate of  inflation during  the year ahead.

Among the  favorable  portents were  the impact  of  the  softness  in  house

prices  on inflation attitudes,  the  still  highly  competitive conditions

in many markets  for goods,  the  related emphasis  on  cost-cutting efforts

by businesses to  compensate  for their difficulty or  inability to  raise

prices,  and  some evidence  that  wage  inflation was  no  longer worsening.

Of  particular  significance  in the  view of  some members  was  the

relatively  restrained monetary growth over the  last  few  years associated

-11-

with a policy that  had been resisting inflation.  This  policy was  likely

to damp  inflation over time;  moreover,  as  the public's perceptions  of

the  System's anti-inflationary  stance  became more  firmly held, progress

in  reducing inflation would tend to  accelerate.  On the  unfavorable

side,  persisting  inflation pressures in many service  industries and

relatively tight  labor markets  in  some  areas  remained a source  of

concern.  Moreover,  as evidenced by  recent  increases  in the  prices of

motor vehicles  despite  weak  sales,  inflation psychology still was  a

serious problem in  at  least  some  segments of the  business community.

In  keeping with the  requirements  of the  Full Employment  and

Balanced Growth Act  of  1978  (the Humphrey-Hawkins Act),  the  Committee at

this meeting reviewed the  ranges  for  growth in the monetary and debt

aggregates that  it  had established  in February  for  1990  and  decided on

tentative  ranges  for  growth of those aggregates  in 1991.  The current

ranges  for  the period  from the  fourth quarter of  1989  to the  fourth

quarter of  1990  included expansion of  3 to  7 percent  for  M2  and 2-1/2 to

6-1/2  percent  for M3.  The monitoring range for growth of total domestic

nonfinancial debt had been  set  at  5 to  9 percent.

In  its  consideration  of the ranges  for  1990  and 1991,  the

Committee took  account  of the much  slower than anticipated expansion  of

M2  and M3  in the  first  half of the  year and the  possible implications

for  spending  and prices.  To a large extent,  the weakness  in monetary

growth was associated with a redirection of  credit  flows away  from

depository  institutions to market  channels,  and total borrowing  by

domestic  nonfinancial  sectors did not moderate  appreciably  in the  first

half  of  1990  from the pace  of  1989.  Much of  the  slower growth  in

-12-

lending by  depository  institutions  in turn reflected continued shrinkage

of the  savings  and  loan industry--to an  important  extent  because  of  a

step-up  in government  assumption of thrift  assets  by the Resolution

Trust Corporation  (RTC) and related transfers  of deposits and  assets to

commercial banks.  Expansion  of commercial  bank credit  had  remained

moderate, reflecting pressures  on bank  capital  positions and bank

concerns about  the  credit  quality of borrowers.  The members  generally

anticipated that  these  special  factors would continue to depress  the

growth of M2  and M3  in the  second  half of this  year and  in 1991,  though

perhaps to a lesser  extent next  year.  These  factors were  exerting their

largest  and most  direct  influence  on M3,  which includes the bulk  of bank

and thrift  funding sources, but  also were  affecting M2.  Such

developments had  few  if  any precedents, and there was  substantial

uncertainty about their  duration and effects on the economy.

Against this background, most  of  the members were  in favor of

reaffirming the  ranges  for M2  and nonfinancial debt  for  1990  that the

Committee had  established at  its  February meeting, while  others

indicated a preference  for  reducing the  range  for M2.  Members who

preferred to maintain the  current  ranges  pointed out  that  the  expansion

of these aggregates was  within their respective  ranges  in the  first  half

of  the year, though toward the  lower  end of  the range  in the  case  of M2.

With regard to the  latter,  it  was  suggested that  the  four-percentage-

point width of  the  current  range  should be  enough to encompass  likely

and desirable  outcomes for the year.  Several members also  commented

that,  as  a general  rule,  they preferred not  to adjust  current  ranges  at

midyear, in part to  avoid conveying an impression of unwarranted

-13-

precision--particularly if  the adjustments were  relatively  small--or of

changes  being made  simply to  reflect the  actual  data.  A shortfall  from

the  current  ranges  should be  kept under  careful  scrutiny to  judge

whether policy was  indeed tighter than intended or  desired.  If

ultimately the  Committee elected to tolerate  a shortfall  from the

current  ranges,  it  would accept  the  useful discipline  of explaining the

reasons  for  the deviations  in its reports  to  Congress.  Members also

noted that the  reasons  for  the  shortfall  in M2  were not  entirely

understood, and  in the  circumstances a downward adjustment to  the  range

might  not  be  appropriate in terms of  furthering the  Committee's  basic

objectives  for the  economy.  Those who  favored a lower  range  for M2

observed that,  despite  the  uncertainties that  were  involved,  enough was

known to  suggest  that velocity  had increased for technical  reasons  and

that M2  growth  lower than previously contemplated  would be consistent

with the  Committee's objectives.  One member also  indicated that  a lower

range would coincide with a continuing preference, first  expressed  in

February, for  a range that  in this  view appeared to  be more  consistent

with the  Committee's long-run,  anti-inflation strategy.

With regard to the  1990  range for M3,  a majority  of the members

favored  some  reduction, though there were differences  with  regard to  the

precise  amount.  A lower  range was  deemed to be  warranted by  the  strong

indications that  M3 growth would  fall below  its  current  range  for the

year  to an  important  extent  because  of  continuing RTC  activity in

resolving insolvent thrift  institutions.  While  the Committee  had

anticipated some  slowing  in M3  growth and had  reduced the M3  range  in

February, the  shortfall  in the  first  half  of the year was  considerably

-14-

greater than expected.  It represented mostly a restructuring of  credit

flows  rather than an overall reduction  in  credit  availability, though

there were  signs  of  some  tightening of  credit terms.  In the

circumstances, a lower  range  would be a technical  adjustment and would

not be  indicative  of  added restraint  in overall  credit  availability or

an  intention by the Committee  to increase the  degree  of monetary

restraint.  A few members  expressed reservations about lowering the M3

range,  or at  least  lowering it  substantially, in part  because a higher

range might  be  needed in  later years when  special  factors were  no longer

depressing the growth of this  aggregate.  In  this  view, to avoid

potential misinterpretation of the Committee's policy, the  ranges  should

not  be moved up and down to  fit  special  circumstances;  instead, they

should  be reduced  steadily but  gradually to  levels  that were  consistent

with the  Committee's  long-run objective  of sustainable, noninflationary

economic growth.

At  the conclusion of this discussion,  the Committee voted to

reaffirm the  1990  ranges that  it had established in February for  growth

of M2  and nonfinancial debt  and to  lower the  1990  range  for M3 by 1-1/2

percentage points to  1 to  5 percent.  The  Committee approved the

following  statement  for  inclusion  in its  domestic policy directive:

The Committee  reaffirmed at this meeting the range
it had established in  February for M2  growth of 3 to  7
percent, measured from the  fourth quarter of 1989  to
the  fourth quarter  of  1990.  The  Committee  also
retained the  monitoring range  of 5 to  9 percent  for the
year that  it had  set  for growth  of total domestic
nonfinancial debt.  With  regard  to M3,  the  Committee
recognized that  the  ongoing  restructuring of thrift
depository institutions had depressed its  growth
relative to  spending and total  credit more  than
anticipated.  Taking account  of  the unexpectedly strong

-15-

M3 velocity, the Committee decided to reduce the  1990
range  to 1 to 5 percent.

Votes  for  this action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Boehne,  Boykin, Hoskins, Kelley,
LaWare, Mullins,  and Stern.  Vote  against this
action:  Ms.  Seger.  Absent  and not  voting:
Mr. Johnson.

Ms.  Seger dissented because she  wanted to  reaffirm the  existing

range  for M3  as well  as  those for M2  and nonfinancial debt.  In her

view, the  shortfall  in M3  growth reflected  not  only technical  factors,

related in  large  part  to the  ongoing restructuring of the  savings  and

loan  industry, but  an undesirable tightening in the availability of

credit.  In  the  circumstances,  she  was  concerned that tolerating M3

growth at  a rate  near the lower end of the  1 to 5 percent  range would be

associated with credit  conditions  that presented too great  a risk to the

current  economic expansion.

Turning to the  provisional ranges  for  1991,  a majority of the

members  argued for  some  reduction  in  the ranges  for M2  and nonfinancial

debt,  and most  favored a relatively  low  range  for M3.  Reductions  in the

ranges  for M2  and debt  would serve  to implement  the  Committee's  strategy

of gradually  lowering the  ranges to  levels that  were consistent  with its

long-run goals.  Additionally, a lower range for M2  seemed appropriate

in light of the prospect that  the  velocity of this  aggregate, which like

that  of M3 had  risen to an  unexpected extent this year, might  rise

somewhat  further  in  1991  in conjunction with the ongoing  restructuring

of thrift  institutions.  In the view  of many members,  a reduction in the

range  for M2 also was  desirable because  it would underscore  the

Committee's  commitment to  an anti-inflationary policy  and by potentially

enhancing the  credibility of that policy possibly  increase its

-16-

effectiveness.  Several members  indicated that  while a small  reduction

in the M2  range  was  acceptable, a greater  reduction might  imply

tolerance  of  slower monetary growth than would be  consistent with

sustained economic  expansion.  Moreover, the M2  range  already  had been

reduced substantially over the past  several years  and was  getting close

to the  level  that might  be desirable  over the  long  run.

Some members  preferred not  to change the  1991  range  for M2 at

this meeting.  They did not  disagree  with the  strategy of  gradually

reducing the  Committee's  ranges  over time, but  they  felt  that  current

uncertainties  warranted approaching any  reduction with  a special  degree

of  caution.  There  was  a possibility  of a major  shift  in  fiscal policy,

and ongoing changes  in  financial  flows were  affecting the  relationship

of the monetary aggregates to spending.  By next  February, the  Committee

was  likely to be  in a much better position to  judge  the  implications  of

these  factors  for  the  economy and appropriate money growth as  well  as  to

have  in  clearer  focus the  usual  factors bearing on the  outlook  for

economic  activity  and the  financial  system.

With regard to the  range  for  M3,  the  factors  that were  tending

to  depress M3  growth  relative to income in  1990  could well  persist

through  1991.  In these  circumstances, a majority of the  members favored

a range  that was  equal  to or  lower than the  revised range  of 1 to 5

percent  for  1990.  Members who expressed a preference  for some  further

reduction  believed that  a lower range  was more  likely to encompass  the

actual outcome  and was  consistent  with the monetary-policy restraint

signaled  by the  reductions  favored by most  members in the M2  and debt

ranges  for  1991.  Other members  preferred not  to adopt  a range  that

-17-

would accommodate  essentially no growth  in M3,  even if  technical factors

suggested a relatively high probability of  such an  outcome.  In  this

view,  such a range would be below  the one  likely to be  warranted for the

longer term and would therefore have  to be  raised at  some  point,

possibly even for  1991  depending on  economic,  financial, and  fiscal

policy developments  prior to  the Committee's  review of the  ranges  early

next  year.

At  the  conclusion of  this  discussion, the Committee  approved

provisional  ranges  for 1991  that  involved reductions  of 1/2  percentage

point  for M2  and  nonfinancial  debt  from the  1990  ranges  and no  further

change  in  the M3  range  from the  reduced  1990  range.  The  Committee  voted

to  incorporate the  following statement  regarding  the  1991  ranges  in its

domestic policy directive:

For  1991,  the  Committee agreed on provisional

ranges  for monetary growth, measured  from the  fourth
quarter of  1990  to  the  fourth quarter of  1991,  of  2-1/2
to  6-1/2  percent  for M2 and 1 to  5 percent  for M3.  The
Committee tentatively set  the associated monitoring
range  for  growth of total  domestic nonfinancial debt  at
4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  1991.  The behavior  of the
monetary aggregates will  continue  to  be  evaluated in
the  light  of progress  toward price  level  stability,
movements  in  their velocities, and developments  in the
economy and  financial markets.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Boehne,  Boykin, Hoskins,  Kelley,
Mullins, and Stern.  Votes against  this action:
Ms.  Seger  and Mr.  LaWare.  Absent  and not  voting:
Mr. Johnson.

Mr. LaWare dissented because he  preferred  a somewhat  lower

range  for M3  in  1991.  He  did not  view  such a range  as  implying greater

monetary restraint  next  year but  as warranted by technical  factors,

notably  the  further  shrinkage in prospect  for the  savings  and loan

-18-

industry, that  pointed to a further  rise  in the velocity of M3  and  to

little or  no growth in this aggregate  in 1991.  Moreover, he  believed

that  a further reduction in the M3  range  for next  year  would be more

consistent with the lower ranges  tentatively adopted  for M2  and

nonfinancial  debt.

Ms.  Seger dissented because  she wanted to  retain this year's

ranges,  at  least  tentatively, for  1991.  She was not  opposed to  gradual

reductions  in the ranges  over time, and  she would be  prepared to make

adjustments  in February if intervening developments  warranted.  However,

she  continued to believe that  the inevitable  uncertainties in assessing

the economic  outlook over an extended period of time  argued for  not

changing the ranges  at  midyear  but waiting until  February.  Such

uncertainties  loomed especially large at  this time because  of the

possibility of a major  adjustment  in  fiscal policy and the critical

questions that  remained concerning the outlook  for  credit  conditions.

In the  Committee's discussion of policy  implementation for the

weeks  ahead, all  of the members  supported a proposal to maintain

unchanged conditions  in  reserve markets  at  least  initially following

this  meeting, and a majority favored a directive  that  could accommodate

some  slight  easing of  reserve  conditions  fairly  soon unless  incoming

indicators  suggested appreciably stronger monetary  growth and greater

inflationary pressures  than the members currently expected.  The  degree

of monetary  restraint  sought by the  Committee  since  late  1989  remained

appropriate, but  despite a steady  policy course,  credit  conditions

appeared to have tightened at  least marginally in recent months.  The

evidence of  such tightening, while not  conclusive,  had become more

-19-

persuasive  and was  a source of  increasing concern;  the marked slowing  in

monetary growth in the  second quarter in particular  suggested the

possibility of more restraint  than the Committee  intended.  Nonetheless,

in the view of nearly all  the members, the  persistence of  inflation

argued for caution and  against  any adjustment that  would have the  effect

of  easing the overall  thrust  of  policy unless  incoming  information on

the monetary aggregates and the  economy pointed to a significantly

weaker outlook  for  economic activity.

The members who preferred not  to bias  the Committee's  directive

toward a slight  reduction in the  degree of  reserve pressure  believed

that more  evidence  would be helpful  to assess  the performance  of  the

economy and the extent  of  any inadvertent and  inappropriate  tightening

in overall  credit  conditions.  They emphasized that  the  persistence  of

inflationary pressures and the  related need to maintain the credibility

of the  System's anti-inflationary policy warranted particular caution

against  any premature easing or  any policy move that  might be

interpreted as  such.  However, a number  of these members  acknowledged

that  they too  were  concerned by the very  sluggish monetary growth  in

recent months,  at  least  to the extent that  it  could not be  explained by

technical  factors and might  therefore be  signaling a weaker economy  or

an  inappropriately restrictive monetary policy.

According to  a staff analysis  prepared  for  this meeting, growth

of M2  was  likely to  resume over  the third quarter, but  only to a pace

that would keep  this aggregate  near the  lower end of the  Committee's

range  for  the year,  assuming steady money market  conditions and  an

economic  performance  in line  with the members' expectations.  The

-20-

expansion of M3  was projected to  remain very  sluggish as components  of

this  aggregate  continued to  respond to thrift  industry and  related

developments that had  inhibited their growth.

At  the  conclusion of the  Committee's discussion, all  of  the

members  indicated that  they  favored or  could accept  a directive  that

called  for maintaining the  existing degree  of  pressure on  reserve

positions  for at  least  a short  period after this meeting.  Subsequently,

some  slight  easing  of  reserve  conditions  could be  implemented unless

incoming data  on the monetary aggregates  and the economy  evidenced

greater  strength;  because  of the minor firming that  appeared to  have

occurred  in general credit  conditions,  such  easing  in the  availability

of  reserves would in  effect  serve  to maintain the overall  degree of

monetary restraint  that the  Committee had  sought to  implement  since  late

1989.  In  keeping with this  approach to policy, the directive  provided

that  slightly greater  reserve  restraint might  be acceptable during the

intermeeting period or  somewhat  lesser  restraint  would be  acceptable

depending on progress  toward price stability, the  strength of the

business expansion, the  behavior of the monetary aggregates, and

developments  in foreign exchange and domestic financial markets.  The

reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this meeting were expected to be

consistent  with  growth of M2  and M3  at  annual  rates  of  3 and 1 percent

respectively over the three-month period from June  to  September.  The

intermeeting range  for  the  federal  fund  rate,  which provides  one

mechanism for  initiating  consultation of  the Committee when  its

boundaries are persistently  exceeded, was  left unchanged at  6 to  10

percent.

-21-

At the  conclusion of  the meeting, the  following domestic policy

directive was  issued to  the Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York:

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggests
that  economic activity is  continuing to expand but  at
a relatively slow pace.  Total  nonfarm payroll employ-
ment  has  increased at  a much reduced rate in  recent
months.  Nevertheless,  the civilian unemployment  rate
has  remained in a narrow  range  for an extended period
and was  5.3 percent  in May.  Industrial production
increased substantially in May, largely reflecting a
rebound in the manufacture  of motor vehicles.
Consumer  spending has  been sluggish  in recent  months;
outlays  for  goods have  declined while  expenditures  for
services have  increased at  a slower pace.  Business
capital  spending appears to have  slackened a bit  in
the  spring after a pickup earlier in the  year.
Residential  construction has  fallen to a relatively
low  level in  recent months.  The nominal  U.S.
merchandise trade  deficit  narrowed in April  from its
average  rate  in the  first quarter.  Partly reflecting
an unwinding of  the earlier  jump  in prices of  food and
energy, consumer prices rose  at  a slower  rate  in April
and May, while producer prices  were unchanged over the
two months.  The  latest  data on wages  suggest no
improvement in  underlying trends.

Short-term interest  rates  have changed little  on

balance  since the  Committee meeting on May 15,  while
rates  in long-term debt markets have declined  somewhat
over the  intermeeting period.  The  trade-weighted
foreign  exchange value of the dollar in terms  of the
other G-10  currencies was  somewhat  higher over much of
the  period but  declined late  in the period to  a level
slightly below that prevailing at  the  time of  the May
meeting.

M2  and M3  declined in May;  available data for

June suggest  a partial rebound in M2 and little  change
in M3.  Growth of M2  and especially  of M3 has  been
damped by the  continuing contraction of  deposits  of
thrift  institutions  resulting from the  restructuring
of the  thrift  industry.  Through June,  expansion of M2
was  estimated to  be  in the  lower portion of its  range
for  1990  and growth of M3  somewhat below its  range for
the year.  Expansion  of total  domestic nonfinancial
debt  appears to  have been at  the midpoint  of  its
monitoring range.

-22-

The  Federal Open Market  Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions  that  will  foster price
stability, promote growth in  output  on a sustainable
basis,  and contribute  to an improved pattern of
international transactions.  In  furtherance of these
objectives  the Committee  reaffirmed at  this meeting
the  range it had established in February  for M2  growth
of  3 to  7 percent, measured from the  fourth quarter  of
1989 to the  fourth  quarter of  1990.  The Committee
also  retained the monitoring range of  5 to  9 percent
for the year that  it had set  for growth  of total
domestic  nonfinancial debt.  With regard to M3, the
Committee  recognized that  the ongoing  restructuring of
thrift  depository institutions  had depressed its
growth  relative to spending and total  credit more than
anticipated.  Taking account  of the unexpectedly
strong M3  velocity, the Committee decided to  reduce
the  1990  range to  1 to  5 percent.  For  1991,  the
Committee  agreed on provisional ranges  for monetary
growth, measured from the fourth  quarter of  1990 to
the  fourth quarter of 1991,  of 2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent
for M2  and  1 to 5 percent  for M3.  The  Committee
tentatively  set  the associated monitoring  range for
growth of total domestic nonfinancial debt  at  4-1/2  to
8-1/2  percent  for 1991.  The  behavior of the monetary
aggregates  will continue to be  evaluated in the  light
of  progress toward price level  stability, movements in
their velocities, and developments in  the economy  and
financial markets.

In the  implementation of policy  for the  immediate

future,  the Committee  seeks  to maintain the existing
degree  of  pressure on reserve  positions.  Taking
account  of  progress toward price  stability, the
strength of the business expansion, the behavior of
the monetary aggregates,  and developments  in foreign
exchange  and domestic financial markets,  slightly
greater  reserve  restraint might  or  somewhat  lesser
reserve restraint  would be  acceptable in the
intermeeting period.  The  contemplated reserve
conditions  are  expected to be  consistent  with growth
of M2  and M3  over  the period from June  through
September at  annual  rates  of  about 3 and  1 percent
respectively.  The  Chairman may call  for Committee
consultation if  it  appears to  the Manager  for Domestic
Operations  that  reserve  conditions  during the period
before the  next  meeting are  likely to be associated
with a federal  funds  rate persistently outside a range
of  6 to  10  percent.

-23-

Votes  for the  paragraph on  short-run policy

implementation:  Messrs. Greenspan, Corrigan,
Angell,  Boehne, Boykin, Hoskins,  Kelley, LaWare,
Mullins, Ms.  Seger and Mr. Stern.  Votes  against
this  action:  None.  Absent  and not  voting:
Mr. Johnson.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release 

|

For  Use  at  4:30  p.m. 

February  5,  1993

The  Federal  Reserve  Board  and  the Federal  Open  Market

Committee today  released the  attached  record  of  policy  actions

taken by  the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

December  22,  1992.

The  record  for  each  meeting  of the  Committee  is  made

available  a few  days  after  the  next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published  in  the  Federal  Reserve  Bulletin

and  the  Board's  Annual  Report.  The  summary description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions  contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely  on  the  information that  was  available  to  the

Committee  at  the  time  of  the  meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF  POLICY ACTIONS  OF  THE

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET  COMMITTEE

Meeting  Held  on  December  22,  1992

The  information  reviewed at  this meeting  suggested that

economic  activity was  rising  appreciably  in the  fourth  quarter.

Consumer  spending, in  association with  an apparent  upturn  in wage

income  and  a surge  in  confidence, had  improved  considerably;  sizable

gains  were  being  registered  in  the  sales  and  starts  of  single-family

homes;  and business  spending  for  capital  equipment  remained  strong.

There  also  had  been  solid  advances in  industrial  output,  and  private

payroll  employment  had turned  up.  Data  on wages  and prices  had been

slightly  less  favorable  recently,  and  on balance  they raised  the

possibility that the  trend toward  lower  inflation might  be  slowing  a

little.

Total  nonfarm payroll  employment  expanded  for  the  third

consecutive month  in November,  and  the  average workweek  increased

further.  A  sizable  rise  in  government  employment  largely  reflected

temporary  hiring to  staff polling  places  during the  general  election.

Private  employment  also  picked  up  somewhat,  despite  a decline  in

construction  jobs  and weaker-than-usual  seasonal  hiring in the  retail

trade  sector.  A  range  of  service  industries  recorded  further  gains  in

employment,  and  the number  of jobs  in  manufacturing  increased  after

three months  of  sizable  declines.  The  civilian unemployment  rate  fell

further  in November,  to  7.2  percent.

Industrial  production recorded  another  advance  in November.

Motor vehicle  assemblies  were  about  unchanged, but  significant gains

were  evident  elsewhere,  notably in  the production  of business

equipment,  construction supplies,  and  industrial materials.  The

output  of  consumer  goods  rose  slightly  further  in November;  all  of the

increase  was  in the production  of nondurable  goods.  Reflecting the

higher  level  of output,  total  utilization of  industrial  capacity edged

higher  in  November  to  a level  slightly  above  that  at  the  end  of  1991.

Retail  sales,  buoyed by  strong  gains  in disposable  income

and  a marked  improvement  in  consumer  attitudes,  rose  sharply  in

October  and  posted  a further  increase  in  November.  Sales  of  light

trucks  were  up  substantially  in the  October-November period,  and  sales

of a wide  variety of  other  goods,  both durable  and  nondurable,  also

advanced  considerably.  Single-family  starts  rose  over  October  and

November to  their  highest  level  since  February,  but  starts  of

multifamily  units  remained  at  depressed  levels.  Sales  of  new and

existing homes  continued  on  an upward trend,  although  the  preliminary

estimate  for new home  sales  was down  in October.

The limited  data  available  suggested  that  real  business

fixed  investment was  continuing to  expand at  a brisk pace.  Shipments

of nondefense  capital  goods  were  up  on balance  over  September  and

October.  A decline  in  shipments  of  office  and  computing  equipment,

which had  accounted  for most  of the  gains  in  shipments  since  early

1991,  was more than  offset by  a considerable  rise  in  shipments  of

other  items.  Among  other  indicators  of  spending for  durable  equipment

over  the  September-October  period,  sales  of heavy  trucks  rose  sharply,

and  business  purchases  likely  accounted for  some  of the  recent  sizable

increase  in  sales  of light  trucks;  on  the other  hand,  shipments  of

complete  aircraft  were  weak.  Nonresidential  construction  activity

turned up  on balance  in  September  and  October,  partly reflecting  a

steadying  of  expenditures  for  office  buildings,  which had  plunged

during the summer.  At  the  same  time,  construction  of other  commercial

structures  recovered  from a sharp  decline  in  August,  while  outlays  for

industrial  structures  remained weak.  A sharp  increase  in  drilling

activity  occurred in  October,  apparently  in  response to higher  natural

gas  prices  and the  expiration  at  year-end  of  a drilling  subsidy.

Business  inventories were  drawn down  appreciably  further  in

October.  In  manufacturing, reductions  in  stocks  were  smaller  in

October  than  in  September.  The  ratios  of  stocks  to  shipments  in  most

industries were  at  or  near  the bottom of their  recent  ranges.  In  the

trade  sector,  a sharp  drop  in  stocks  held  by  auto  dealers more  than

accounted  for  an overall  decline  in  retail  inventories in  October.

Aside  from auto  dealers,  a slight  increase  in  retail  stocks  coupled

with  a strong  increase  in  sales  produced  a small  decline  in  inventory

to-sales  ratios.  Wholesale  inventories  fell  again  in  October,  and  the

inventory-to-sales  ratio  for  this  sector  was near  the  low end  of the

range  observed  over  the  past  two  years.

The  nominal  U.S.  merchandise  trade deficit  narrowed somewhat

in  October  from  its  average  rate  in  the  third quarter,  reflecting  both

a considerable  increase  in  the value  of  exports  and  a decline  in  the

value of  imports.  Most  of  the expansion  in exports  was  in  capital

goods,  notably aircraft  and  industrial machinery,  and  consumer  goods.

The  reduction  in imports  was  primarily in  consumer  goods  and  in

passenger  cars  imported  from  Canada.  Recent  indicators  generally

pointed  to  continued  weakness  in  the  economies  of the major  foreign

industrial  countries.  During  the  third  quarter,  economic  activity

contracted  further  in  Japan and  western  Germany  and  expanded  slowly in

France  and  Canada.  In  the United  Kingdom,  activity  appeared to  have

changed  little.

Producer  prices  of  finished  goods  fell  slightly in  November,

reflecting  sharp  declines  in  the  prices  of  food,  gasoline,  and  fuel

oil.  Excluding the  finished  food  and  energy  components,  producer

prices  edged  higher  and,  for  the  twelve months  ended  in  November,  rose

at  a considerably  slower  pace  than  in  the  comparable year-earlier

period.  By  contrast,  at  the  consumer  level,  prices  of nonfood,  non-

energy  goods  increased  over  October  and  November  at  a faster  rate  than

in the  previous  several months.  Consumer  prices  of  apparel,  tobacco,

and  used  cars  rose  sharply  in  October,  and  airfares  surged  in  October

and  November  as  domestic  airlines  sought  to  restore  profit margins

that  had been squeezed by  promotions  over the  summer.  Even  with these

upticks,  however,  the  index  of  consumer prices  excluding  food  and

energy  increased  considerably more  slowly  in  the  twelve months  ended

in November than  in the year-earlier  period.  Average  hourly earnings

of  private  production or  nonsupervisory workers  also  rose more  rapidly

in November;  the  strongest  gains  were  in  the  finance,  insurance,  and

real  estate  category,  but  sizable  increases  were  recorded  in  several

other  sectors  as  well.  Nevertheless,  average  hourly earnings  rose

more  slowly  over  the twelve  months  ended  in  November  than over  the

year-earlier period.

At  its  meeting on November  17,  the  Committee  adopted  a

directive  that  called for  maintaining  the existing  degree  of pressure

on  reserve  positions  and that  included  some  bias  toward  possible

easing during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  the directive

indicated  that  in  the  context  of the  Committee's  long-run  objectives

for  price  stability and  sustainable economic  growth,  and  giving

careful  consideration  to  economic,  financial,  and  monetary

developments,  slightly  greater  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable

or  slightly  lesser  reserve  restraint would  be  acceptable during  the

intermeeting  period.  The  contemplated  reserve  conditions were

expected  to be  consistent with  growth of M2  and  M3  at  annual  rates  of

about  3-1/2  and  1 percent  respectively  over  the  three-month  period

from  September  through December.

Open market  operations  during the  intermeeting  period were

directed  toward maintaining the existing  degree  of  pressure on  reserve

positions.  One  small  technical decrease  was made  during the  period to

expected levels  of  adjustment plus  seasonal  borrowing  to  reflect  the

usual  pattern  of diminishing needs  for  seasonal  credit.  Because  of

settlement-day pressures,  actual borrowing  along with the  federal

funds  rate  tended to  average  a little above  expected  levels.

Changes  in other  short-term interest  rates  were mixed  over

the  intermeeting  period.  In  the  market  for Treasury  securities,  bill

rates  were  essentially unchanged while bond  yields  fell  despite the

emergence  of  a more  robust  economic  picture.  Tending  to  offset  the

effects  of the  latter  on  long-term rates  was  the  tenor  of  statements

emanating  from the  incoming Administration, which were  viewed by

market  participants  as  reducing  the  likelihood  of  a large  fiscal

stimulus  package.  The  recent  step-up  in  the  size of  bill auctions  and

the  potential  for  some  shortening  of  the  maturity of  Treasury  debt

issues  under the  new Administration  also  might have  contributed to  the

flattening  of the  Treasury  yield curve.  Market  expectations  of  year-

end  pressures  sharply  boosted  interest  rates  on  very short  term

private  paper  for  a time;  however,  concerns  about  year-end  pressures

subsequently abated,  and much  of the  rise  in  rates  was  retraced.  Most

three-  to  six-month private  rates  fell  on  balance over  the period;  the

lower  rates  likely were associated with  lessened  expectations  of year-

end  pressures  but  also might  have  reflected  perceptions  of reduced

credit  risks  in  a strengthening  economy.  Buoyed  by  the  prospects  for

a stronger economy  and the  declines that  had  occurred  in bond  yields,

most major  indexes  of  stock prices  reached  record highs.

In  foreign  exchange markets,  the trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in  terms  of the  other  G-10  currencies was  essentially unchanged

on  balance  over  the  intermeeting period.  The  dollar  moved moderately

higher  over  the  first  half  of the  period  in  response to  incoming  data

suggesting that  the  prospects  for  sustained  economic  growth  in  the

United  States  were  improving  while the  economic  outlook  for  Japan  and

Germany  was  deteriorating  somewhat.  Later  in the  period,  the  dollar

gave  up  its  gains,  partly  as  a result  of  strong  anti-inflationary

statements  from Bundesbank  officials  that  damped  market  expectations

of near-term monetary  easing  in  Germany.  The  relative  stability  of

the  dollar  contrasted  sharply  with the  rekindling of exchange  rate

pressures  among a number  of  European  currencies.

The  growth  of M2  slowed  in November,  and  on average  it  had

expanded  at  a moderate  pace  in  recent  months;  the  limited  available

data  indicated  a further  reduction in  growth  of this  aggregate  in

December.  The  recent  behavior  of M2  largely  reflected  a sharp  falloff

in  the  expansion of  demand deposits  associated with  a backup  in money

market  rates  in  previous  months  and  a likely  slowing in  the  rate  of

increase  in mortgage  refinancing  activity.  M3  expanded  at  a

relatively  slow  rate  in November  and  appeared  to  be  declining  in

December.  For  the  year, both  M2  and  M3  apparently  grew at  rates  a

little below the  lower  ends  of the  annual  ranges  established by  the

Committee.

The  staff projection  prepared for  this  meeting  suggested  a

continuing  expansion in  economic  activity that would  be  associated

with  gradual  reductions  in the margins  of unemployed or  underutilized

labor  and  capital  resources.  The  pickup  in  economic  activity  in

recent  months, through  its  positive  effects  on  confidence  and  incomes,

was  expected to  provide  greater  momentum to  the  economy  in  the  near

term.  However,  this  impetus  would  in  part  be  offset  by weaker  export

demand  as  a result  of  slower  growth  abroad  and the  higher  level  of the

dollar;  the  earlier backup  in  long-term interest  rates,  only  part  of

which was  retraced  in  recent  weeks,  also  would have  a restraining

effect.  Consumer  spending, which  had  outpaced  income  growth  in the

second  half  of  1992,  was  projected to  expand more  in  line with  incomes

in  coming  quarters.  Residential  construction was  expected to

strengthen  gradually as  concerns  about  employment  security  receded  and

incomes  improved.  Spending  increases  on  business  equipment  were

expected to be  sustained  in  part by  continuing efforts  to  improve

productivity,  and  investment  in industrial  building  and  in  commercial

structures  other  than  office buildings  would  begin to  pick  up  in  1993.

While  recognizing the  possibility  of  a stimulative  fiscal  initiative

in  1993,  the staff  retained  for  this  forecast the  assumption in

several  recent  forecasts that  fiscal  policy would be  mildly

restrictive.  The  persisting,  though diminishing,  slack in  resource

utilization  over the  forecast  period was  expected to  be  associated

with additional  progress  in  reducing  inflation.

In  the  Committee's discussion  of  current  and  prospective

economic  developments,  the  members  cited  growing indications  of  a

somewhat  stronger  expansion than had  seemed  to  be  under way  earlier

and  a marked improvement  in  business  and  consumer  confidence,

especially  over  the past month  or  two.  Although  substantial uncer-

tainties  still  surrounded  the  outlook, these  developments  provided

encouraging support  for  forecasts  of  continued  economic  growth  at  a

pace  sufficient  to  reduce  gradually margins  of unutilized  resources.

The  expansion now seemed to  have  gathered  fairly broad-based momentum

that  might  be  reinforced  over  the  quarters  ahead  by  business  efforts

to  build up  inventories  in  the  context  of  generally  low inventory-to-

sales  ratios.  Moreover,  the  improving financial  condition of many

households  and business  firms,  notably  banking institutions,  was a

promising development that  should  reduce  constraints  on  economic

growth  over  coming  quarters.  The  possibility  of  expansionary fiscal

measures  was  another  source  of  potential  short-term  stimulus  to  the

economy,  though  one  surrounded by  substantial  uncertainty  with  respect

to  the  nature,  size,  and  timing of any  fiscal  initiatives and  the

longer-run  consequences.  On the  negative  side,  many  of the  members

stressed what they  regarded  as  a worsening  outlook  for U.S.  exports;

they  also  noted  the continuing weakness  in  commercial  construction,

defense  spending,  and  the  retarding  effects  on  employment  of  ongoing

downsizing  and  restructuring by many business  and  financial  firms.

With  regard to  the  outlook for  inflation,  some  of the  recent  reports

on  prices  and wages  had been  less  favorable  than  earlier.  However,

against  the  background  of  continuing though  diminishing  slack  in

production  resources,  favorable  trends  in productivity,  and  restrained

growth  in  the broad measures  of money  the members  generally  continued

to  anticipate  further  progress  toward  price  stability over  the

forecast  horizon.

The  statistical  evidence of  a  stronger expansion was

bolstered by anecdotal  reports  of improving business  conditions  across

much of the nation.  Confidence  also  appeared to  be  rising in most

areas  and  indeed  seemed to  be  leading  the  statistics.  Some  members

observed,  however,  that  representatives  of many  larger business  firms

did  not  seem to  share  the  ebullient mood  of their  smaller  business

counterparts,  possibly reflecting  the  still  active  retrenchment

efforts  of many large  firms  and  growing  indications  for  some  of

weakening markets  abroad.  There  also were  significant  geographic

exceptions  to the  improving business  climate,  notably  in  areas  that

were  substantially  affected by  cutbacks  in  defense  spending,  business

consolidation  and  cost-cutting  activities,  and  underlying weakness  in

the  energy  industry.  On balance,  regional  weakness  in  parts  of the

country  such  as  southern  California tended  to  be masked  in the  overall

economic  statistics by what  were  increasingly  robust  business

conditions  in the  rest  of the  nation.

Personal  consumption  expenditures  had posted  relatively  good

gains  over  the  past  several months,  and  retail  sales  were  displaying

considerable  strength in the  ongoing  holiday  season  according to

anecdotal  reports  from  around the  country.  Further  growth  in  consumer

expenditures  was  expected to  provide  a key underpinning  for  continuing

economic expansion.  A  development that might  well  be buttressing

consumer  spending was  the  improvement  in  existing home  sales  and the

related  capital  gains  that were tending  to  supplement the  recent

strengthening  in disposable  incomes.  Nonetheless,  the  contribution  of

the  consumer sector was  likely  to be  constrained by  a number  of

factors  despite the  recent  surge  in  consumer  confidence.  In

particular,  an already  low saving  rate  and  still  substantial household

debt  burdens would  tend  to  restrain the  growth  in consumption

expenditures.  Moreover,  it  seemed likely  that  gains  in  employment

would  continue to  be  relatively  limited,  owing to  further  business

restructuring  activities  and  related  improvements  in  productivity that

would tend  to hold  down the demand  for  new workers.  Even  so,  the  pace

of business hiring  could be  expected to  quicken  as  existing workers

were  utilized more  fully  and  the  practical  limits  to  increasing  output

through  overtime work were  reached.

Continuing efforts  to  improve  productivity were  seen  as

likely  to  stimulate appreciable  further  expansion  in  business  fixed

investment.  Much  of that  expansion was  expected to  take  the form of

substantial  further  growth in  outlays  for  business  equipment,

especially  if  an  investment tax  credit  were to be  enacted.  At  the

-10-

same  time,  investment  in  nonresidential  structures was  projected to

stabilize for  the  nation as  a whole next  year  after  declining in

recent  years.  In this  connection, members  drew  some  encouragement

from  anecdotal  reports  that  prices,  rental  rates,  and  other  terms

relating to  the  value  of  commercial  real  estate  seemed to be  bottoming

out  in  several  depressed markets,  though  a turnaround involving

significant  new construction was  unlikely  for  an  extended period  in

many  of  those markets.  The  outlook for  housing  construction was  more

promising,  especially  for  the  single-family  sector.  Housing  activity

had  strengthened  at  least  marginally  in  recent months  in many  parts  of

the  country,  and the  conjunction  of  reduced mortgage  rates  and  some

projected  increase  in  incomes  was  expected  to  support at  least  a

gradual  uptrend in  housing construction.

With  regard to  fiscal  policy, members noted  that  the  bond

markets had  responded  favorably in  recent  weeks  to  indications  that

the  incoming  Administration would  give  emphasis  to  reducing the

federal budget  deficit  over time.  Indeed,  the prompt  enactment  of

legislation to  achieve that  objective  undoubtedly would  bolster

business  and  consumer  confidence  as  well  as  bond  markets with

favorable  effects  on  the  economy.  Some members  cautioned,  however,

that  those effects  would tend  to  be  negated to the  extent  that  lower

federal  spending was  offset by legislated  increases  in  required

spending by business  firms  to  finance worker benefits  and  other

programs;  such  spending would  reduce  profits  and  incentives  to  expand

and  ultimately would  boost  costs  and  prices.  In  any  event,  the  course

of  fiscal  legislation  remained highly uncertain  in terms  of its  size,

structure,  and  timing and  thus  its  near-  and  longer-term  effects on

the  economy.

-11-

Many  of the  members  saw  a substantial  risk that  lagging

exports  could  exert  a  significant  constraint  on  the  domestic

expansion.  There  were  increasing  indications  of a weaker  economic

performance  in  many foreign  countries,  which were  reinforced  by  recent

anecdotal  reports  from  contacts  at  domestic  firms  engaged  in

international  business  activities.  However,  while  the  risks  for

prospective  economic  activity  abroad  seemed  to be  tilted  to  the

downside,  stimulative policy  responses  by  foreign  authorities--some  of

which  had already  been  initiated--might  well  alter  developing trends.

For  now, though,  diverging  business trends  in the United  States  and

foreign  nations  in  association with the  rise  that  had  occurred  in  the

dollar  over  the  course  of  recent months  pointed  to  a worsening  trade

balance  for  the  United  States.

The members  generally  anticipated further  progress toward

price  stability,  although  some  now expected  somewhat  less  improvement

than  they had earlier.  In  the  view of many members,  key factors

underlying  a favorable  inflation outlook  included the persisting,

though  decreasing,  slack in the utilization  of production  resources

associated with  the moderate  expansion expected  in  overall  economic

activity  and the  slow  growth  that had  occurred  for  an  extended  period

in  the broad measures  of money.  While  recent data  on  consumer  prices

and wages  had a  somewhat  less  favorable  tenor,  price competition

remained vigorous  in markets  for many  goods  and  developments  in long-

term debt  markets  suggested  some  shift  in  expectations  toward  lower

inflation.  It  also  was  noted that  ongoing cutbacks  in  work forces  by

many  employers,  including the  widely  publicized  reductions by  some

major  corporations,  were tending  to  limit  demands  for  higher  wages.

Another  important  influence was the  strong competition  from  foreign

suppliers  in the  context  of  sluggish demands  in  their  own markets  and

-12-

the  rise  in  the  foreign exchange  value  of  the dollar.  Rapid  increases

in  the  narrow measures  of money and  reserves  also  were  cited  as

possibly  signifying  a  risk  on  the  other  side  if  such  increases

persisted--that  is,  that monetary policy might  soon be  accommodating

renewed  inflationary pressures.

In  the  Committee's  discussion  of short-run  policy  for  the

period  until  the  next meeting,  all  of the members  expressed  a

preference  for maintaining  an  unchanged  degree of  pressure  on  reserve

positions;  all  also  indicated  that they  could  support  a shift  from the

tilt  toward  ease  incorporated  in  recent  directives  to  a symmetrical

directive  that would  not include  any bias  with regard  to  possible

adjustments  to the  degree  of  reserve  restraint  during the intermeeting

period.  Improved  prospects  for moderate  economic  growth argued  for

maintaining  the  Committee's  current  stance  in  reserve markets,  and

they  also warranted  a shift  toward a more balanced  approach  to

possible  intermeeting  changes  in  policy.  At the  same  time,  the  still

considerable uncertainties  surrounding the  economic  outlook,  including

some  lingering  questions  about  the sustainability  of the  expansion,

indicated  the desirability of  a cautious  approach to  any  policy

changes.  In this  connection, several  members  referred to  the  swings

in the  outlook that  had  characterized the  current  expansion,  including

the  recent  reversal  of  sentiment  regarding the  strength  of the

expansion,  and the  associated  risks  of premature  or  misdirected policy

moves.

The members  observed  that the  next policy move might  be  in

either  direction.  For  example,  the  need  for  some  easing could  not  be

ruled  out  should the  expansion  again  appear to  be  faltering.  Substan-

tial weakness  in the monetary aggregates  over coming months  would  be

one factor  to  be  weighed  in  assessing the  economic  outlook, though

-13-

velocity  developments  also  would have  to  be taken  into  account.  On

the  other  hand, a stronger  economic  performance might  raise  questions

as  to  the  need  for  a tightening move  at  some  point  during the  year

ahead  as  a means  of maintaining progress  toward  price stability while

continuing to  encourage maximum sustainable  economic  expansion.  If a

tightening move  were  to be  needed,  it  would be  desirable to  implement

such  a move before  inflation pressures  showed through  in the  actual

price  statistics  in  order to  avoid  sharp  and  potentially  disruptive

tightening actions  later.  One  member  expressed  concern about  the  risk

of  maintaining  an  overly stimulative monetary policy  for  too  long,

with  adverse consequences  for  inflation;  while not  prepared to  tighten

policy  at  this  point,  he  indicated  a preference  for  biasing the

directive  toward  restraint.

In the  course of this  discussion, the  members took  account

of  a staff  analysis  that  pointed to  quite  sluggish  growth in M2  and M3

over  the months  ahead  and  to  a marked  slowing in  the  expansion  of Ml.

The  broader monetary aggregates were  expected to  continue to  be

affected  by the  various  factors  that  had  inhibited  their  growth  over

the  past  two  years  and that  had  induced a substantial diversion  of

credit  flows  from  banking institutions  into  capital  market

instruments.  Moreover,  some  special  factors that  had boosted  the

growth  of the broader  aggregates  in  recent  months,  such as  the

enlarged  volume of  mortgage  refinancing activity,  would  tend to

dissipate  in the months immediately  ahead,  assuming  no  significant

change  in  mortgage  interest  rates.  While  the atypically  slow  growth

of  the  broader aggregates  during the  current  economic  recovery  did  not

under  prevailing circumstances  have the  usual  implications  for  the

performance  of the  economy,  given the  concomitant  and  unusual  rise  in

their  velocities,  several  members nonetheless  expressed  concern  about

-14-

the  persistence  of the  lagging growth.  A few were more  concerned

about the  behavior of the  narrower measures  of money  such  as  Ml  or  the

monetary base whose  growth had  been unsustainably  rapid  over  much  of

1992,  though  these  now  gave  some  indications  of moderating.  There was

general  agreement  that  the  performance  of the various monetary

aggregates  should  continue to  be monitored with  special  care.

At  the  conclusion of  the Committee's  discussion,  all  of  the

members  indicated their  support  of  a directive  that  called  for

maintaining  the  existing  degree  of  pressure  on  reserve  positions  and

that  did  not  include  a presumption  about  the  likely  direction  of  any

adjustments  to  policy during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  in

the  context  of the  Committee's  long-run objectives  for price  stability

and  sustainable  economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration  to

economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,  the  Committee  decided

that  slightly  greater  or  slightly  lesser  monetary restraint  would be

acceptable  during  the  intermeeting period.  The  reserve  conditions

contemplated  at  this meeting were  expected  to  be  consistent  with M2

growth  at  an annual  rate  of  about  1-1/2  percent  and with M3  about

unchanged  over the  four-month period  from November through March.

At  the  conclusion of the meeting, the  following domestic

policy directive was  issued to  the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The  information  reviewed  at  this meeting  suggests
that  economic  activity  has  been  rising appreciably  in
the  current  quarter.  Total  nonfarm payroll  employment
has  increased  slightly  since  September,  and  the  average
workweek has  moved higher.  The  civilian unemployment
rate fell  further in  November to  7.2  percent.  Indus-
trial  production posted solid  gains  in  October  and
November.  Retail  sales  increased  sharply in  October
and  rose  further  in November.  Residential  construction
activity appears  to  have  increased from  the  third-
quarter  pace.  Indicators  of business  fixed  investment
have  been mixed  recently,  but  on  balance they  suggest
further  growth.  The nominal U.S.  merchandise trade
deficit narrowed  somewhat  in  October  from its  average

-15-

rate  in  the third  quarter.  Recent data  on  wages  and
prices  suggest  on balance  a possible  slowing  in  the
trend  toward  lower  inflation.

Changes  in  short-term interest  rates have  been

mixed  since  the  Committee meeting  on  November 17  while
bond  yields  have  edged  lower.  In  foreign  exchange
markets,  the trade-weighted value of  the  dollar  in
terms  of the  other  G-10  currencies was  essentially
unchanged  on balance  over  the  intermeeting period.

Over  the  course  of  recent months, M2  has  expanded

at  a moderate  pace,  while M3  has  continued to  expand  at
a very  slow  rate.  More  recently,  both aggregates  have
weakened  somewhat.  Both  appear to have  grown  at  rates
a little below the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established
by  the  Committee  for  the year.

The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions  that  will  foster  price  sta-
bility  and  promote  sustainable  growth  in  output.  In
furtherance of  these  objectives,  the  Committee  at  its
meeting on  June  30-July  1 reaffirmed  the  ranges  it  had
established in  February for  growth  of M2  and  M3  of
2-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively,
measured  from the  fourth  quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth
quarter  of  1992.  The  Committee  anticipated that
developments  contributing to  unusual  velocity increases
could  persist  in  the second  half  of the  year.  The
monitoring  range  for  growth  of total  domestic  non-
financial  debt  also  was maintained  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2
percent  for  the  year.  For  1993,  the  Committee  on  a
tentative  basis  set the  same  ranges  as  in  1992  for
growth  of the monetary  aggregates  and  debt  measured
from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to the  fourth  quarter
of  1993.  The  behavior  of the  monetary aggregates  will
continue to  be  evaluated  in the light  of progress
toward  price  level  stability, movements  in their
velocities,  and developments  in  the  economy  and
financial  markets.

In  the  implementation of  policy for  the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks  to maintain  the existing
degree  of pressure  on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price  stability  and  sustainable economic  growth,  and
giving  careful  consideration  to  economic,  financial,
and  monetary developments,  slightly  greater  reserve
restraint  or  slightly  lesser  reserve  restraint would  be
acceptable  in  the  intermeeting period.  The  contem-
plated  reserve  conditions  are  expected to  be  consistent

-16-

with M2  growing  at  a rate  of  around  1-1/2  percent  and
M3  about  unchanged  in  the  period  from November  through
March.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Hoenig,  Jordan, Kelley, LaWare,
Lindsey, Melzer, Mullins,  Ms.  Phillips,  and
Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  None.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For  Use  at  4:30  p.m. 

February  7, 1992

The Federal Reserve  Board  and the Federal  Open  Market

Committee today  released the attached  record  of  policy actions

taken  by the Federal  Open Market  Committee at  its  meeting  on

December  17,  1991.

The record for  each  meeting of  the  Committee  is made

available  a few  days  after  the next  regularly  scheduled  meeting

and  subsequently is  published  in  the Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and  the Board's  Annual  Report.  The  summary description  of

economic  and financial  conditions  contained  in each  record  is

based  solely  on  the  information that  was  available  to  the

Committee  at the time  of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF POLICY  ACTIONS  OF THE

FEDERAL OPEN  MARKET  COMMITTEE

Meeting Held  on  December  17,  1991

Domestic  policy  directive

The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting  indicated that  the

economy was  sluggish  and  that business  and  consumer  confidence

remained depressed.  Spending for  housing  and  business  equipment had

been  rising, but  consumption  expenditures  had  softened,  commercial

construction activity was  still declining,  and  government spending  at

all  levels  was being  restrained by budgetary  imbalances.  Recently,

industrial  production had  fallen,  and  payroll  employment  had  dropped

sharply.  Wage  and  price  increases had  continued to  trend  downward.

Total  nonfarm payroll  employment  fell  sharply  in November

after  rising  somewhat  in the third  quarter  and  changing  little  in

October.  Declines  in  employment were widespread:  the number  of

manufacturing  jobs  decreased  in November  for  a third  straight month,

and  further  job  losses  were  reported  in  construction and  in wholesale

and  retail  trade.  However,  the average weekly hours  worked by

production  or  nonsupervisory workers  in  the  private nonfarm sector

edged  up in  November,  and  the  civilian  unemployment  rate  remained at

6.8  percent.

Industrial  production fell  appreciably  in November after

changing little  in  the previous  three  months.  A portion  of  the

November  decline  reflected  a sizable  drop  in  the  output  of  motor

vehicles  and  parts.  In  addition,  however, the  production of  non-auto

consumer  goods  slackened,  and  the  output  of  business  equipment  other

than motor  vehicles  remained  near  its  low of  last  March;  the  latter

reflected  in  part  the persisting  effects  of  a strike  at  a major

producer  of  industrial  equipment.  As  in  most  earlier  months  of the

year,  the production  of defense  and  space products  declined.  With

industrial  output down  in  November,  total  industrial capacity

utilization  decreased,  and  declines  in  operating  rates  were widespread

across  industries.

Real  consumer  spending had  been  soft  on balance in  recent

months,  reflecting  sluggish  growth  in  disposable  incomes, weak  labor-

market  conditions,  and  depressed  consumer  confidence.  Nominal  retail

sales  expanded  somewhat  in  November  from a downward  revised  level  for

October.  The November  increase  reflected  a rebound  in  sales  of

nondurable  goods  other  than  food  and  a rise  in  sales  at  automotive

dealers;  sales  of  durable goods  other  than  autos  were  about unchanged.

Housing  starts  fell  in  November,  retracing part  of  a substantial

advance  in  October;  on  average,  starts  were appreciably higher  in

October  and November  than  in  the third  quarter.  Despite low mortgage

interest  rates  and  steady house prices,  sales  of  single-family homes

in  October  remained well  below their  spring  levels.

After  changing little  over the third  quarter,  shipments  of

nondefense  capital  goods  registered  a sharp  rise  in October,

reflecting  a bulge  in  outlays  for  computing  equipment;  shipments  of

most  other  types  of business  equipment  remained  sluggish.  Recent data

on  orders suggested  little  growth in  aggregate outlays  for  business

equipment  over  the near  term.  Nonresidential construction, notably  of

office  and  other  commercial  structures,  continued to  shrink  in

October.  The vacancy  rate  for  office buildings was  still very high,

and  this  along with  available information  on  contracts  and  commitments

suggested that  nonresidential  construction activity would  remain weak

for  an  extended  period.

Business  inventories  turned  up  sharply in  September  after

many months  of  liquidation.  At  the retail  level,  inventories  rose

further  in  October,  with nearly half of  the  buildup  occurring at  auto

dealers.  The  additional  rise  in  stocks  coupled with  declines  in  sales

led  to  higher  inventory-to-sales  ratios  at many types  of  retail

establishments,  Aggregated  over  all  retail  establishments  other than

auto  dealers,  the  ratio  of  inventories  to  sales  in  October  was  close

to  the  peak posted  in  early  1991.  By  contrast,  in  manufacturing,

stocks  changed  little  in  October,  and  the  ratio  of  stocks  to  sales

decreased  and  nearly reached  its  low of August  1990.  Wholesale

inventories were  up slightly  in  October  after  a sizable  decline  in the

previous month;  the  inventory-to-sales  ratio  remained  in the narrow

range that  had  prevailed  in recent  months.

The  nominal U.S.  merchandise  trade  deficit widened  slightly

further  in  September.  For  the  third  quarter,  the  deficit was  somewhat

above  its  average  rate  over  the first  half of  1991  but  well below  its

rate  in  1990.  The  value  of  exports  in the  third  quarter  remained

close  to the  record  high  reached  in  the  second  quarter  while the value

of  imports  increased  appreciably, with most  of  the  rise  reflecting

larger  imports  of automotive  products  and  consumer  goods.  The

increase  in  imports  of  consumer  goods  appeared to  have  contributed  to

the  substantial  buildup in  retail  inventories  in  the United  States,

particularly in  the month  of September.  The  available  data  on

economic  activity  in  the major  foreign  industrial  countries  provided

further  evidence of  relatively weak  growth  on balance  in  these

countries  in the  third  quarter  and  gave  few  indications  of  a revival

in  the  fourth  quarter.  The  trend  toward  reduced  inflation had

continued  in most  of the  industrial  countries.

Producer  prices  of  finished  goods  advanced  in  November  at

about  the  slow pace recorded  since midyear;  over  this  period,  declines

in  food  prices  roughly  offset  increases  in  energy prices.  At  the

consumer  level,  food  and  energy prices  jumped  in  November,  but  the

increase in  the  prices  of  nonfood, non-energy items  was  about the  same

as  that  registered  since midyear  and  considerably below the  1990  pace.

Average hourly earnings  of  production or  nonsupervisory workers  in  the

October-November  period increased  at  about the reduced  third-quarter

rate;  over  the  past twelve months,  average hourly earnings had  risen

more  slowly than  in the previous  twelve-month  period.

At  its meeting  on  November  5, 1991,  the Committee adopted  a

directive that  called  for  an  immediate  slight  easing  in  the degree  of

pressure on  reserve positions  and  that provided  for  giving  special

weight  to potential developments  that might  require  some  additional

easing during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly, the  directive

indicated  that  slightly greater  reserve  restraint might  be acceptable

during the  intermeeting period  or  slightly  lesser reserve restraint

would be  acceptable depending  on  progress  toward price  stability,

trends  in  economic  activity, the  behavior  of  the monetary aggregates,

and developments  in foreign exchange and  domestic  financial markets.

The  reserve  conditions  contemplated under  this  directive were expected

to  be  consistent with  growth  of M2  and  M3  at  annual  rates  of  around  3

percent  and  1 percent  respectively over  the three-month period  from

September  through December.

Immediately following the November  meeting, open market

operations  were  directed toward  a slight easing  of conditions  in

reserve  markets;  this  step  was taken in  conjunction with the  reduction

in  the  discount  rate  from 5 to  4-1/2  percent  approved by  the Board  of

Governors  on November  6.  In  early December,  as  economic  indicators

continued  to point to  a faltering  recovery and  growth  of the broad

monetary aggregates  remained  sluggish,  an  additional slight  easing  of

reserve  conditions was  carried  out.  Several  technical  reductions were

made  during the  intermeeting period  to  expected  levels  of  adjustment

plus  seasonal borrowing  to  reflect the declining  usage  of  seasonal

credit  during the  autumn.  For most  of the  intermeeting  interval,

adjustment  plus  seasonal borrowing tended to  run  a little below

expected  levels,  averaging  slightly more than  $100  million over  the

three complete  reserve maintenance periods.  The federal  funds  rate

averaged around  4-3/4  percent over  most  of  the  period but  softened to

around  4-1/2  percent  after  the  second  easing action.

Other  short-term  interest  rates  declined more  than the

federal  funds  rate  as  market participants  reacted to  actual  and

anticipated  further easing  steps  amid  growing evidence  that  the

economic  recovery  had  stalled.  Expectations  of  more subdued  economic

activity  contributed to  declines  in  yields  on  longer-term instruments

as  well. 

Yields  on  intermediate maturity securities  dropped  almost

as  much as  short-term rates  while rates  on mortgages,  corporate  bonds,

and  long-term Treasuries  fell by  less.  The prime  rate was  reduced by

1/2  percentage point  to  7-1/2  percent  early  in  the  intermeeting

period.  Broad  stock price  indexes were  down  slightly.

The trade-weighted  value of  the  dollar  in  terms  of  the other

G-10  currencies declined  further  on  balance  over  the intermeeting

period.  During most  of the  period, signs  of  weakness  in the  U.S.

economy and  the  easings  of  U.S.  monetary policy had a depressing

effect  on  the value of the  dollar.  The  dollar's  depreciation was

primarily against  the mark and  other  European currencies;  the mark was

supported by  reports  of further  increases in wage  and  price  inflation

in Germany and  associated  expectations that  German monetary policy

would be  tightened.  The  dollar declined  less against the  Japanese yen

as  evidence  accumulated that  the Japanese economy was  slowing further

and  some easing was  implemented in  Japanese monetary policy.

Expansion in  M2  picked  up in November  from a slow pace  in

October.  At  least  in  part this  reflected the  cumulative effect of

earlier  declines  in  short-term market  interest rates  in  lowering the

opportunity  costs  of holding liquid  deposits.  The somewhat  faster

expansion of M2  was  consistent  with the Committee's  expectations  for

M2  growth  in the fourth  quarter.  The  more rapid  growth  of  M2  showed

through to a limited  extent to M3.  For  the year  through November,

expansion of both M2  and M3 was  estimated to have been  at  the lower

ends  of  the  Committee's  annual  ranges.

The staff  projection prepared for  this  meeting pointed to  a

recovery  in  economic activity.  However,  a variety of incoming

information, notably  indications  of a depressed  state  of  confidence,

weaker  than expected consumer  spending, and  sluggish  industrial

production suggested  a pause  in  the  recovery that might  extend  into

early  1992.  By the spring,  the  cumulative effects of  declines  in

interest  rates  in  recent months would  contribute to  a resumption  of

economic  growth at  a moderate rate, with the  risks  of a stronger  or

weaker  trajectory for  the economy being viewed  as  about  in  balance.

Increases  in  residential construction, somewhat  larger  consumption

expenditures,  and  some pickup  in  business  equipment  spending were

projected to provide the  underpinnings for the  resumption of  growth.

As  in earlier  forecasts,  the  continuing downtrend  in commercial

construction and  ongoing adjustments  in  state  and  local  government

spending in  response to  budget imbalances  were expected  to have a

retarding effect  on aggregate demand.  At  the federal  level,  projected

declines  in defense  outlays, which would be only partially offset  by

higher nondefense  spending, also  would  be a source  of restraint,  at

least  in the absence of  new fiscal  initiatives.  The substantial

though diminishing slack expected  in  labor  and product markets  in

coming quarters  was  projected  to  induce further  declines  in  the

underlying  rate  of  inflation.

In the  Committee's  discussion  of  current  and  prospective

economic  developments,  the members  focused  on  an  evident  pause in  the

business  recovery and  its  interaction  with very  gloomy business  and

consumer  sentiment.  A number  of  factors that had  been  expected to

damp  the  expansion--including  the  retrenchment  associated with the

rebuilding of balance  sheets  by heavily  indebted  businesses  and

consumers  and the  efforts  of many  firms  to  improve  efficiency by

streamlining  operations  and  reducing  employment--had  in  fact proved  to

be  stronger  and  more persistent than  anticipated.  The timing  of  a

renewed  expansion  in business  activity was  uncertain, and  a number  of

members  commented  that  the  economy might  well  remain  quite  sluggish

over  the months  immediately ahead.  Nonetheless,  considerable  progress

in  business  and  financial  restructuring  activities  was  in train,  and

the  latter together with the  stimulus  that  could  be  expected  from the

lagged  effects  of  earlier monetary policy  easing actions was  likely to

lead  to  a moderate  pickup  in  the  economy  later  in  1992.  With  regard

to the  outlook  for  inflation, many members  observed that  the

statistical  and  anecdotal  evidence pointed  to  faster progress  toward

price  stability  than they had  anticipated  earlier.

As  they had  at  earlier  meetings, the members  gave  consider-

able  emphasis  to  current  business and  consumer  sentiment, which they

judged  to  be much  more negative than under  similar  business  and

employment  conditions  in  the past.  The  underlying  reasons were

difficult  to  ascertain  but  probably reflected  a variety  of develop-

ments  including  widespread disappointment  over  the pace  of the

economic  recovery, related  consumer concerns  about  employment

opportunities,  and  fears  associated with  heavy debt  burdens  and  the

weakened financial  condition of many business  and  financial

institutions.  The  size of  the federal budget deficit was  adding to

those  concerns,  and  the budgetary problems  of  many  state and  local

governments were  seen as  likely to  result  in  higher  taxes and  spending

cutbacks.  On  the positive  side, while the efforts  to  rebuild balance

sheets  and to  restructure  business  activities were likely to  continue

to  exert  restraining  effects  on the  economy, such  developments  had

favorable implications  for  the financial  health and  the competitive

strength of  the  economy over  the  longer  run.  Members  noted  in  this

connection  that  a record volume  of equity issues  was helping to  reduce

balance sheet  leverage and  that  proceeds  from large  offerings  of  debt

securities  were  being used  to  a considerable  extent  to  pay down  short-

term  liabilities.  The sizable  decline in interest  rates  over  the

course of  recent months was  easing the  debt service  burdens  of  many

borrowers, and  in  a few  geographic areas  banking institutions  were

reported to  be making funds  more  readily  available.  The stock market

continued to  display appreciable  strength,  reflecting the  drop  in

interest  rates  and suggesting  investor  confidence  in  the longer-run

outlook  for  the  economy.  Some members  also  cited the  indications  of

reviving  growth in  the  broader  monetary aggregates as  an  encouraging

if  still tentative  development.

Turning to  developments  in  key sectors  of  the  economy,  the

members commented  that  it was  still  too  early to  get  a firm  indication

regarding holiday spending  by  consumers,  though retailers  in  some

parts of  the country reported  that sales  were somewhat  better  than

they had projected.  Nonetheless,  consumers  remained  quite cautious

nationwide, and some members  commented that  consumer  spending for

durable goods  might well continue sluggish  over  the months  ahead,

especially in  a context  of  widespread consumer  concerns about

-9-

employment  prospects,  debt  burdens,  and  softness  in  real  estate

prices.  Some members  also  observed that  the  saving  rate was  already

on  the  low side  and that  the  risks  of  a rise  in  that rate  could  not  be

ruled  out  in  the  environment  that  was  likely to  prevail during  the

months  ahead.

The members  did not  discern  signs  of  significant  strength-

ening  in business  expenditures  for  equipment  over  the nearer  term,

though  the  output of  capital  goods  appeared to be  on  a slowly  rising

trend  in at  least one major  capital-producing  region.  Nonresidential

construction activity  remained very weak  in most  parts  of  the  country

and  high vacancy  rates  suggested  little  prospect  for  improvement  in

the  commercial building  sector  for  an  extended period.  On  the  other

hand,  significant  improvement  in  housing  construction was  reported in

some  parts  of  the  country, and housing activity  appeared to  be holding

up  reasonably well  on  a nationwide  basis.  The  declines that had

occurred in  interest  rates  would  tend  over  time to  stimulate housing

and  other  interest-sensitive  sectors  of  the  economy.  The  outlook for

U.S.  exports was tempered by more  sluggish  business conditions  in

several key  countries  than had  been expected  earlier,  but  exports

would be supported  by  the depreciation  in  the foreign  exchange value

of the dollar  since mid-1991.

Businesses continued to  pursue  cautious inventory  investment

policies.  Contacts  in  most parts  of  the  country described  current

inventories  as  lean  and many  retailers were prepared to  accept  reduced

sales  rather than  to  add to  their  inventories  under  prevailing

conditions,  although some buildup  had  occurred in  recent months  in

association with weak  demands.  While  rising  inventories  were not

likely  to make  a major contribution to  the  anticipated  recovery, any

-10-

significant  firming in  final  demands  probably would  be  reflected

fairly promptly  in  increased  production.

With  regard  to  the  outlook for  the  government  sectors,

members  commented  that  the massive  size  of  current  federal  budget

deficits  greatly limited  any  flexibility in  providing some  stimulus

through  fiscal  policy actions.  It was noted  in  this  connection that

any  legislation that  was  seen  as  significantly increasing the  size  of

the federal  deficits  over  the  longer  run  could have  adverse

repercussions  on  long-term interest  rates  and business  and  consumer

confidence.  Some  members  also  referred  to  the negative  effects  on

confidence and  spending  stemming  from the budgetary difficulties  of

numerous  state  and  local  governments;  at  least  in  some  areas,  however,

capital  expenditures by such  government  entities  were being

accelerated  by  lower  interest  and  other  costs.

The  members were encouraged  by  evidence that  inflationary

pressures appeared  to  be  subsiding  at  a faster  pace than  they had

anticipated  earlier.  Anecdotal  reports  suggested  very  competitive

conditions  in  producer  and  retail  markets and  favorable wage patterns.

Employee  benefit  costs were  still  rising rapidly, notably medical

costs,  but members  cited  some  examples  of  promising  efforts  on  the

part  of  medical  providers  to  curb  the  escalation  in  their  costs.  It

was  suggested that  the  behavior  of  commodity prices  over  the past year

was  consistent with  an  outlook for  stable  producer  prices.  The

members  saw little  risk of  worsening inflationary pressures  over  the

forecast horizon  even if the pace  of  the  recovery proved to  be

somewhat more vigorous  than they  currently expected;  however,  some

stressed  that it  was  important  for  monetary policy to  sustain the

downtrend in  inflation over  an even  longer horizon.

-11-

In  the  Committee's  discussion  of policy for  the period

ahead,  most  of  the members  indicated  that they favored  or  could accept

a directive  that  called for  no  immediate  change  in  the  degree  of

pressure on  reserve positions but  that  carried an  especially  strong

presumption  that  some easing  in  reserve  conditions would  be

implemented  unless  improvement  in  the  economy became evident  fairly

promptly or  there was  significant  evidence of  a pickup  in M2  growth  in

the  period  immediately ahead.  Separately, the Board  of  Governors

would  need to  decide  how the  discount  rate  should  be structured  in

order  to  get  the maximum benefits  from any  easing,  given the  current

state of business  and  consumer  confidence.

The policy discussion focused  on the need  to  foster  a

sustained,  noninflationary recovery.  Such  an  environment  would

promote continuing balance  sheet  adjustments  and  business

restructurings  that would  over  time enhance the financial  soundness

and  competitive  strength of  the economy.  For now, however, these

activities  were having  restraining effects  on the  economy, and there

were  as  yet  no  clear  indications  that  the recovery was  resuming.

While the  risks  of  a substantial weakening in  the  economy were perhaps

small,  such  a development  would have  severe consequences  for  the

economy and  financial  institutions.  In  these circumstances, many  of

the members believed that  some  further  easing of  reserve conditions

likely would be  called  for,  especially  if  indications of  some

strengthening in the  economy or  in  the  growth of  the monetary

aggregates  should  fail  to materialize  in  the near  future.  A number  of

members  also commented  that against  the  background  of better-than-

expected progress  toward  price stability, a stalled recovery,  and  slow

monetary growth, the  inflation risks  of  further  easing were  minimal.

-12-

Some  members  indicated  that  they saw an  advantage  in  making

a more  substantial policy move at  some  point in  the period  ahead

rather  than  additional  limited easing actions  of  the  sort  that had

been  implemented  in recent  years.  In this  view, a larger  and more

visible policy action, which generally was not  anticipated  in

financial markets,  would have  greater  effectiveness  in  part  because it

would  be more  likely to  bolster  confidence.  The  level  of  interest

rates  and money  growth that  would be  expected to  ensue from such  an

action, against  the background of  the  substantial  easing that  had

already been  implemented,  should be  sufficient  to  foster expansion  and

promote the view that  further  easing would not  be needed.

Other  members,  while not  disagreeing  that  further  easing

might  be desirable, nonetheless  expressed  reservations  about the

urgency  to  ease  in  the near  term and  especially the need  for  a sizable

move.  These members  emphasized that  a substantial amount  of  easing

had  been  implemented over  the  past  several months  and that  to  a

considerable extent  the effects  of such  easing  had not  yet  shown

through  in  the  economy.  A number  of  these members  also  expressed the

view that monetary policy  could do  little to  offset  the  restraining

effects  of  the balance  sheet  adjustments  and  business restructuring

activities  that were currently under  way.  Moreover,  a resurgence  of

inflation pressures  as  the  recovery  gathered  strength could  not be

ruled  out,  and  too  much easing  in the  period  immediately ahead might

have  to  be  reversed  later  with unsettling consequences.

According to  a staff analysis  prepared  for  this  meeting, M2

and M3  were  likely to  continue  to  grow at  a restrained  pace  over  the

months  ahead  in  light  of  sluggish  expansion in nominal  income  and  very

limited  loan  growth.  A decision  to  implement  somewhat  easier  reserve

conditions  would  stimulate  slightly  faster monetary expansion  in  the

early months of next  year,  though the  broader aggregates would

probably remain  appreciably below the midpoints  of  the tentative

ranges  that  the Committee  had  established for  1992.  The members

observed that  to  an  important  extent the weakness of  the monetary

aggregates  appeared to  be  related to  developments that  involved  some

reduction  in the  intermediary role  of  depository  institutions  and

might not have  adverse implications  for  the  overall availability  of

financing in the  economy.  Some members  suggested that  a number of

indicators,  including the  behavior  of  commodity prices,  the  slope  of

the  yield  curve,  and  trends  in the  growth of  reserves and  narrow

measures  of money,  pointed to  an  adequate availability  of  liquidity  in

the  economy.  Nonetheless,  several members  expressed  concern about  the

continuing  lagging growth  in  the broad  measures  of money,  and  they

felt  that  consideration  should be  given  to  an  easing of  reserve

conditions  if  incoming data were to  suggest that  the  recent  pickup was

not  being sustained.

In  the  course of the Committee's discussion  the members

reviewed  a proposal  to  amend  the wording  of  the  statement in  the

operational  paragraph of  the directive that  related  to possible

intermeeting adjustments to  the degree  of  reserve pressures.  While

several members  expressed  a slight preference  for  retaining the

current  statement,  which contained an  ordering of the  factors

considered  by the  Committee  in guiding intermeeting policy

adjustments,  and  a few preferred  to delete the  listing of  factors

altogether  from the  sentence, all  of  the members  indicated that  they

could  support a proposed  alternative.  That  alternative would make

clearer  the Committee's  focus  on  its  long-term goals  by  inserting a

reference  to  those  goals at  the beginning  of  the  sentence and  would

refer  in  a more  general way to the  immediate economic,  financial,  and

-14-

monetary developments  that might  prompt  an  intermeeting  adjustment.

This  new wording  implied  less  focus  in the directive  itself  on  the

ranking  of the  factors,  but  the understandings  reached at  meetings

regarding their  relative importance would  continue to  be explained

fully in the  policy record.  The members  agreed  that the revised

statement  should be  reviewed  every year  or  more  often  if warranted  by

changing  economic or  financial  conditions.

At  the  conclusion of  the Committee's  discussion, all  but  one

of the members  indicated that they  favored  or  could  accept  a directive

that  would  call  initially  for  maintaining the  existing degree  of

pressure  on  reserve positions.  The members  also noted  their

preference or  acceptance  of  a directive that  included  a marked  bias

toward  easing during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  in  the

context  of  the  Committee's  long-run objectives  for  price stability  and

sustainable  economic  growth, and  giving careful  consideration to

economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,  slightly greater

reserve  restraint  might be  acceptable  or  somewhat  lesser  reserve

restraint would be  acceptable  during the  intermeeting  period.  The

reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this meeting were  expected  to  be

consistent  with  growth  of  M2  and  M3  at  annual rates  of  around  3

percent  and  1-1/2  percent  respectively  over the  four-month period  from

November  through March.

At the  conclusion  of the meeting the  following  domestic

policy directive was  issued to  the Federal Reserve  Bank  of New York:

The information  reviewed  at  this  meeting continues
to  portray a sluggish  economy  and  a depressed  state  of
business  and consumer  confidence.  Total nonfarm pay-
roll  employment  fell  sharply in November;  however,  the
average workweek in  the  private nonfarm sector  edged up
and the  civilian  unemployment rate  remained  at  6.8
percent.  Industrial  production  fell  in  November,
partly reflecting  a sizable drop  in motor  vehicle
assemblies.  Consumer  spending has  been  soft  on balance
in  recent months.  Real outlays  for  business  equipment

-15-

appear  to  be  rising slowly, and nonresidential  con-
struction has  continued to  decline.  Housing starts
were  appreciably higher on average  in  October and
November than  in  the third  quarter.  The nominal  U.S.
merchandise  trade deficit widened  slightly further  in
September;  the  deficit in  the third  quarter  was  sub-
stantially larger  than  in  the  second  quarter.  Wage and
price  increases have  continued to  trend  downward.

Interest  rates  have  declined  appreciably  since the

Committee meeting on November  5.  The Board  of
Governors  approved  a reduction  in  the  discount  rate
from 5 to  4-1/2  percent  on November  6.  In  foreign
exchange markets, the trade-weighted  value of the
dollar  in  terms  of the  other  G-10  currencies  declined
further  over  the  intermeeting period;  the dollar
depreciated primarily  against  the mark  and other
European currencies.

Expansion  in M2  and M3  edged  up  in November  from a

slow pace in  October;  the  slightly faster  growth re-
flected a strengthening in  the most  liquid components
of the  aggregates.  For  the year  through November,
expansion of  both M2  and  M3  is  estimated  to have been
at  the  lower  ends  of the  Committee's  ranges.

The  Federal Open  Market Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions  that will  foster price  sta-
bility and promote  sustainable growth  in  output.  In
furtherance  of these  objectives, the Committee  at  its
meeting  in  July reaffirmed  the ranges  it  had  estab-
lished  in February for  growth  of M2  and  M3  of  2-1/2  to
6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent,  respectively,
measured from the fourth  quarter  of  1990  to  the  fourth
quarter  of  1991.  The monitoring range  for  growth of
total  domestic nonfinancial debt  also was  maintained at
4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent for  the year.  For  1992,  on a
tentative  basis,  the Committee  agreed in July to  use
the  same  ranges  as  in  1991  for  growth in  each  of the
monetary aggregates  and  debt,  measured from the  fourth
quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth  quarter  of  1992.  With
regard to M3,  the  Committee anticipated  that  the
ongoing restructuring  of  thrift depository institutions
would  continue  to  depress the growth  of  this  aggregate
relative to  spending  and  total  credit.  The behavior  of
the  monetary aggregates will  continue to  be  evaluated
in  the  light  of progress  toward  price  level stability,
movements  in their  velocities, and  developments in  the
economy and  financial markets.

In  the implementation of  policy for  the  immediate

future,  the Committee  seeks to  maintain the  existing
degree  of pressure  on  reserve positions.  In  the

-16-

context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price  stability and  sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving careful  consideration  to  economic,  financial,
and  monetary  developments,  slightly greater  reserve
restraint might  or  somewhat  lesser  reserve  restraint
would  be acceptable in  the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated  reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be
consistent with  growth  of M2  and  M3  over  the  period
from November  through March  at  annual  rates  of  about 3
and  1-1/2  percent,  respectively.

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Black,  Forrestal, Keehn,  Kelley,
Lindsey, Mullins,  Parry,  and  Ms.  Phillips.

Vote  against  this action:  Mr.  LaWare.

Mr.  LaWare  dissented  because he  did  not  favor  the

inclusion  in  the  directive of  a strong presumption that  monetary

policy would  be  eased  further  during  the intermeeting period.  While

future  developments  might  call  for  further  easing, he preferred not  to

prejudge  that need  but  to  wait  and  assess the  effects  of the

considerable  easing  actions  undertaken  earlier.  In  his  view, the main

barrier  to  a satisfactory economic  performance was  a crisis  in

confidence that  was  not  likely to  be  alleviated  by  further  incremental

easing.  In  present  circumstances,  a steady  policy could  provide a

firm signal that  the downward drift  in  interest  rates  associated with

a long  series  of  small  easing actions  had come to  an  end.  This  signal

might  well prove to  be beneficial  to the  economy  as  interest-sensitive

decisions  to  spend no  longer were  postponed  in  anticipation of  still

lower  interest  rates.  He  recognized that  lower  interest  rates  could

alleviate heavy  debt  service  burdens,  but he was  concerned  about the

effects  of  a further  decline  in  interest  rates  on  the value  of  the

dollar  in  foreign  exchange markets.

At  a telephone  conference on December  20,  1991,  the

Committee  discussed the  approval  by the Board  of  Governors  of  a 1

percentage point  reduction  in  the discount  rate,  effective  that  day,

-17-

and  the implications  of  that  action  for  the  implementation of the

Committee's  policy with regard  to the  degree of  pressure to  be  sought

in  reserve markets.  It  was  noted during this  discussion that  the

limited  data  received  since the Committee's  meeting on  December  17

continued to  point  to  a very sluggish  economy.  In  keeping with the

Committee's  decision  at  its  recent meeting, it  was  deemed  appropriate

to  direct  open market  operations  toward  allowing part  of  the  reduction

in  the discount  rate to  be  reflected  in  the federal  funds  rate.

Members  commented  that  the  substantial cut  in the  discount  rate and

the  accompanying adjustment in  open market operations  were  likely to

have  a favorable  effect  on  financial markets  and  the behavior  of  the

monetary aggregates  and  in  conjunction with  the  ongoing effects  of

earlier  easing actions  would  provide the  financial  basis  for  a

resumption  of sustainable  economic  growth.  In  light  of  the

substantial  size  of these  actions,  it  would  be  appropriate  to  view the

directive as  symmetrical with regard  to  any further  changes  in  policy

over  the remainder  of  the  intermeeting  period.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For  Use at  4:30 p.m. 

February  8, 1991

The  Federal  Reserve Board and the  Federal  Open Market

Committee  today released the  attached record of policy actions

taken by the  Federal Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

December 18,  1990.

The  record  for each meeting of the  Committee  is  made

available  a few days  after  the  next  regularly scheduled meeting

and subsequently  is  published in the Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the  Board's Annual Report.  The  summary description of

economic and financial  conditions  contained  in  each record is

based  solely on the  information that  was  available to the

Committee at  the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF POLICY ACTIONS  OF THE
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET  COMMITTEE

Meeting Held on December  18,  1990

1.  Domestic policy directive

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggested that

economic activity had fallen appreciably in  recent months.  A depressed

level of  consumer confidence  and a decline  in real  disposable  income had

contributed to sluggish consumer spending.  In  response  to apparent

weakness in final  demands, businesses  had reduced production and

employment;  these cutbacks  were most  evident  in the motor vehicle and

construction sectors, but  a broad  range  of  other industries  had been

affected to some  degree.  Consumer inflation had moderated recently,

largely as  a result  of some  softening  in oil  prices.  Despite the

substantial  increases  in living costs  this  year, wage  gains  appeared to

have  slowed  somewhat  in recent months.

After a progressive weakening during the  first three  quarters

of the year, total nonfarm payroll employment  fell  sharply  further in

October  and November.  Job  losses were  widespread across  industries  in

November but  were  especially pronounced in manufacturing and

construction.  In the  service-producing sector, which had generated most

of the  employment  gains  earlier in the year, the  health industry was one

of the  few to post  significant  increases  in  jobs.  The  civilian

unemployment  rate  rose  to 5.9  percent in November.

Industrial  output  declined markedly for  a second  straight  month

in November.  Production cutbacks were  broadly distributed across

industries  but  were especially pronounced in motor vehicles  and parts,

non-auto consumer goods,  and construction  supplies.  Reflecting the

sizable decline  in manufacturing production, the rate  of capacity

utilization in manufacturing dropped  further below the mid-year high.

In October  and November,  retail  sales  in real terms were below

the  downward revised September  level.  Real  disposable  incomes had been

reduced by a decrease in total  hours worked  and by the  effects of  higher

energy prices,  and major  surveys of  consumer attitudes  in November

indicated that consumer confidence  remained at  depressed levels.  In

October, total private housing starts  declined substantially further;

almost  all  of the drop reflected  additional  weakness in  starts of

multifamily units.  Sales  of both new and existing houses  fell  in

September  and October.

Shipments  of  nondefense  capital goods edged lower in October

after  changing little, on balance, in previous months.  A sizable  drop

in shipments  of aircraft  and parts more  than offset  further  increases  in

the  office  and computing equipment  category.  New orders  for  nondefense

capital goods pointed to a considerable  softening in business equipment

spending in  coming months.  Nonresidential construction activity fell

for a third straight  month, and permits and contracts  for  new

construction remained in a downtrend.  Manufacturing inventories posted

a small  increase in October,  and the ratio  of stocks  to sales  continued

to  edge down.  At  the  retail  level,  non-auto inventories rose moderately

after two months of little  change;  the  inventory-to-sales  ratio  remained

within the  range  that  had prevailed for an extended period.

Reflecting a sharper rise  in the  value of  imports  than  in that

of exports,  the  nominal U.S. merchandise  trade deficit  widened in

October  from its average  rate  in the  third quarter.  After moderating

somewhat  in  September, non-oil  imports  surged in October;  the  value of

oil  imports  also rose  as  a sharp  increase  in  prices  offset  a small

decline in volume.  Nonagricultural exports  registered a sizable

increase that  more than offset  a further drop  in  exports of  agricultural

products.  Economic  growth in the major  foreign industrial countries  was

mixed in  the third quarter.  Growth remained  strong in Western Germany

and appeared to  have  rebounded in France.  Some  slowing  from the  rapid

rise  early  in the year  had occurred  in  Japan, while  declines in  economic

activity  were  recorded in  the United Kingdom and Canada.  Some

moderation in  consumer price  inflation  appeared to  be  in  progress  for

the major  foreign economies, reflecting the  nearly  completed passthrough

to  the  retail  level  of  the earlier  rise  in  oil  prices.

In  November,  increases  in producer prices  of  finished goods

moderated from the  rapid pace of  previous months;  the  prices of  finished

foods  again advanced  sharply,  but  declines  in the  prices  of  refined

petroleum products damped  the overall  rise  in producer  prices.  Over

October  and November, producer prices  of  non-energy, nonfood  finished

goods  increased at  about the third-quarter rate,  which in turn was

somewhat  below that  in the  first  half  of the year.  The  pace of  consumer

inflation also slowed in  November, mostly as  a result  of  a smaller  rise

in  energy prices.  Excluding food and energy  items,  consumer prices  rose

in  November at  the more moderate  pace  seen in  the  previous  two months.

Average  hourly earnings  of  production or  nonsupervisory workers were

unchanged on  balance over October and November;  this  represented  a

considerable slowing from the  increases recorded in earlier months of

the year.

At  its meeting on November 13, the  Committee  adopted a

directive that  called for a slight  immediate  reduction in the degree  of

pressure on  reserve positions  and that  also  called  for giving weight  to

potential  developments that  might require  some  slight  further  easing

during the intermeeting period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated by

the Committee  were  expected to be consistent  with growth  of both M2 and

M3  at  annual  rates  of about  1 to 2 percent  over  the period from

September through December.

Following the meeting, open market  operations  were  directed

toward  implementing the  slight  easing of reserve market  conditions

sought by the  Committee.  Subsequently,  in early December, in light  of

further  indications of  a softening economy and continuing  weakness in

the monetary aggregates,  another slight easing  in reserve  pressures was

carried out.  In addition,  a number  of technical  adjustments  were made

to assumed levels of  adjustment plus  seasonal  borrowing to reflect  the

declines in seasonal borrowing activity that  typically occur late  in the

year.  Adjustment  plus  seasonal borrowing fell  from about  $260  million

for the  reserve maintenance period that  ended the day after the  November

meeting to  a little  over  $100  million  for the period completed  prior to

this meeting.  In  the  early part  of  the  intermeeting period, in the

context  of  continued cautious  reserve management by banks and the

settlement  of  the mid-quarter Treasury refunding, the  federal  funds  rate

averaged near  7-3/4 percent.  Late  in  the period, after the  slight

additional  easing  of policy and as  concerns  about a year-end  squeeze  on

-5-

the availability of  short-term funds abated  somewhat,  the  federal  funds

rate averaged  around 7-1/4  percent.  Other market  interest  rates  also

declined on balance  over the intermeeting  period, in some  cases

substantially, as markets  responded to mounting evidence that  the

economy  was  slowing significantly  and to  the easing  of monetary policy.

Lower interest  rates  and optimism over a possible  peaceful  resolution of

the  Persian Gulf  situation contributed to  a rise  in broad  stock market

indexes.

The easing  of concerns about  year-end pressures  appeared  to

have  been helped by the  announcement by the  Board of Governors  on

December  4, 1990,  of  the elimination  of reserve  requirements  on

nonpersonal  time  deposits  and net Eurocurrency  liabilities.  These

reserve  requirements were  phased down  in two  steps,  with the  second

occurring in the  reserve maintenance period  spanning year-end.  This

action was  not  expected to affect underlying  pressures  on reserves  or

federal  funds  rates but  was  intended to  help  counter the  tightening by

depository institutions  of  credit  terms  for  many types of  borrowers by

providing those institutions with added incentive to  lend  to

creditworthy  borrowers.

In the  foreign exchange markets,  the  dollar fluctuated  in value

over  the  intermeeting period  in response to  changing perceptions

regarding the  Persian Gulf  situation, the  release  of  U.S.  employment

data  for  November,  and the  further  easing of U.S. monetary policy.  On

balance over the  period, the trade-weighted value  of the  dollar rose

slightly in terms  of the  other G-10  currencies.  The  dollar  appreciated

more  against  the yen and sterling;  the recent  decreases  in oil  prices

along with expectations  of  slowing or  negative  economic  growth  had

sparked  large  rallies  in  bond markets  in  Japan  and the United Kingdom.

The  dollar  increased less against  the mark, which was  generally  firm on

the  basis  of  continuing strong economic  growth  in Western Germany and

heightened market  expectations  of further  tightening of  German monetary

policy.

M2  was  about  unchanged over  October and November after growing

at  a relatively limited pace  on balance  in earlier months  of the  year,

while M3  declined slightly in both months.  The  weakness  in M2,  which

persisted  despite an earlier decline in  opportunity  costs,  perhaps

reflected very weak expansion of nominal  income  in  recent months  as  well

as  damped  credit  growth at  depository institutions.  From the  fourth

quarter of  1989 through November, expansion of M2 was  estimated to be  in

the  lower half of  the  Committee's range  for the  year and M3  near the

lower end of  its  range.  Expansion of  total domestic  nonfinancial  debt

appeared to  have been near the midpoint of  its monitoring range.

The  staff projection prepared for  this meeting pointed to a

mild  further decline in  economic  activity  over the  near term and  an

upturn before mid-1991.  The projection was  prepared against  the

background of  persisting uncertainties regarding  the prospects  for  a

peaceful resolution of  the  situation in  the Persian Gulf region.  The

staff  assumed that there  would be no major  further  disruption to  world

oil  supplies  and that oil  prices would drop appreciably  further  in the

first  half of  next year.  The  projection took  into  account  the

constraints on the  supply of  credit and  an  expectation that  such

constraints would persist to  some  degree through the year  ahead.

Consumer outlays were  expected to continue to be  damped in the  near term

by the erosion of  real disposable income  associated with a reduction in

hours worked and the  effects of  higher energy prices;  in  light  of weak

consumer demands,  business  equipment  spending was  projected to be

sluggish  and commercial construction to decline  further,  given the  over-

supply of  currently available space.  Economic  growth was  expected to

resume during the  first  half  of 1991  in  association with the effects  of

the  assumed reduction in oil prices  on consumer  spending  and the  support

provided by  further gains  in exports.  Subsequently, as  business  sales

and  orders  improved, production  and business  investment outlays  were

expected to pick  up.  The outlook  for  inflation remained  clouded by the

uncertainties  regarding oil prices but,  based on  the assumption of a

substantial decline  in  oil prices  and some  added  slack in  resource

utilization, the  staff projected a slower  rise  in prices  and  labor

costs.

In the  Committee's discussion of the economic situation and

outlook,  members commented that  a relatively mild and  short  recession

remained a reasonable  expectation, but they emphasized the risks  of a

more  severe and prolonged  contraction in  economic activity.  Generally

lean business  inventories,  favorable  conditions  for the  further growth

of  exports,  and appreciable declines in oil  prices  from their recent

peaks  all promised to  buoy  spending and activity  over  coming  quarters.

However,  the key to  a near-term rebound in the  economy was  a pickup in

consumer  spending.  Even under the  assumption that  the Persian  Gulf

situation would be more settled  and oil  prices  lower,  restoration of the

degree  of confidence  needed to  induce  a substantial  upturn  in spending

was not  assured.  The financial  difficulties of many borrowers and

financial intermediaries,  especially banks,  could continue to damage

confidence as  well as  to constrain further the  availability of  credit  to

many borrowers  and contribute to additional  declines of asset values in

commercial and real  estate markets.  In  general, the economy and

financial markets were  undergoing a process  of  adjustment to earlier

excesses in leveraging by borrowers and speculative increases  in asset

prices;  while the  course  and effects of that  adjustment were difficult

to predict, there clearly had been an increase  in  the  downside risks to

the economy as  a result.  With regard to  the  outlook  for  inflation,

members saw  growing indications  that a disinflationary process might be

getting underway, and some  viewed recent price  and wage  developments as

consistent with an  outlook for  faster progress  in  reducing inflation

than they had anticipated some months  ago.

Regional business developments  continued to indicate  uneven

conditions ranging from modest further growth in  some  parts of  the

country, including  areas that  were  benefiting  from a relatively  strong

agricultural  sector, to  declining activity in an increasing number of

regions.  Indications  of  softening economic conditions were widespread,

however, even in regions  where  overall business activity  still  appeared

to be  expanding.  Business  sentiment  was  negative  in much of the  nation,

and business  contacts  suggested that  it was  worsening  in many  areas.

Many  state and local  governments,  notably in relatively depressed areas,

were  facing  severe budgetary problems  and were  curbing expenditures  in

response  to lagging tax  receipts  and impaired access to  financial

markets.  Consumer caution was  widespread  and was  evidenced  by reports

of  generally soft  retail  sales thus  far  in the  holiday season.  Some

members commented, however, that  while  its  timing  remained uncertain, an

improvement in  consumer sentiment associated possibly with more  settled

conditions  in the Middle East and an upturn  in real disposable  income

would be  likely to  generate considerable  strengthening in deferred

consumer  spending, particularly  for motor vehicles,  and to  foster  a

rebound in  overall economic activity.  Other comments  focused on the

possibility  that  consumer sentiment might well  remain bearish and

consumer spending  restrained for an  extended period, perhaps  even in the

context  of  favorable developments  in the  Middle East,  as consumers

continued to adjust  to  the  adverse wealth  effects  of weak housing

markets, heavy debt  loads,  concerns about  the  well  publicized

difficulties  of many financial institutions,  and  fears about  their

employment prospects.  Weak housing prices  affected household  spending

especially by reducing perceived wealth, but  also by eroding the margin

of unborrowed equity available to be liquified  for  spending on other

goods  and services.

Many of the members  stressed that  business  investment spending

was  likely to  remain relatively weak, particularly the  construction  of

office  and  other  commercial  facilities that  were  overbuilt in many

metropolitan areas.  To date,  the manufacture  of  capital  goods  appeared

to  have held up relatively  well  in key capital-producing sections  of the

country, though the output  of some  types  of  capital  equipment had  turned

down.  Statistical and anecdotal  reports suggested  that  inventories

generally remained under tight  control,  even  in relatively  depressed

-10-

industries  and regions, and a pickup in overall demand was  therefore

likely to  lead fairly promptly to stronger production  activity.

Members commented that,  apart  from the key role  of consumer

spending, current  forecasts  of a rebound  in overall economic activity

relied to an important extent  on expectations  of appreciable  further

growth in  net  exports  over the next  several  quarters.  The  substantial

depreciation of the  dollar in terms  of  other key currencies  over the

past  year, especially since mid-1990,  would encourage  exports  and curb

imports.  Some members noted, however, that economic  activity  in a

number of major trading  nations might be  somewhat  weaker  than was

anticipated earlier, thereby tending to limit  the  growth in  U.S.

exports.  That view  was  reinforced by comments  from  some domestic

exporters who now saw more limited  export opportunities in  the year

ahead,  at  least  to  some  countries.

Turning to  financial developments, members commented that

economic  recovery would depend to an important  degree on the

availability  of  credit.  While  credit  terms  and conditions were  not

projected to tighten appreciably  further,  the possibility of  such  a

development  represented  a risk to the  economy that  could not  be ruled

out.  A major  source of  financial pressures  was the  decline  in real

estate values  in many areas and the  inability of many  heavily indebted

borrowers to service their  real  estate debts.  The  difficulties  in  the

real  estate  sector and the  related vulnerability of  many  lending

institutions obviously would be  aggravated by a prolonged  recession.

Many business  borrowers  with less  than prime  credit ratings  continued to

report problems  in  securing  financing, even  from their  usual  lenders,

-11-

and  those problems  seemed to  be  increasing in  at  least  some parts  of  the

country  in  conjunction with bank efforts to  rebuild their  capital

positions and limit  their lending risks  in  a weak  economy.  At  the  same

time,  there were  indications of greater  efforts  by banks  in  some  areas

to  increase  their  loans  in  order to  improve their profits;  moreover,

many large banks  appeared to  have  made significant progress  in  adjusting

the pricing of their loans  to take better account  of  lending risks;

those  efforts  also  could lead to  improved profits  and  to  a better

availability  of  credit  to many potential borrowers.

The  softness  in real  estate prices  was  having a pronounced

effect  on inflationary  sentiment,  and  against the  background of  reduced

pressures on production resources and an  extended period of  limited

monetary growth most of  the members believed that  substantial progress

toward lower  inflation was  a likely prospect over the  next  several

quarters.  Rising unemployment  in  some  areas of  the  country was  clearly

reflected  in downward  adjustments to the  wages of  some  categories of

workers.  More  generally, the  rise in  broad wage measures  appeared to

have peaked  in an atmosphere of  concern about  reduced employment

opportunities;  it was  noted in this  connection that  current  unemployment

rates  probably underestimated actual  unemployment, as  discouraged

potential workers  abandoned efforts  to  secure  employment.  Members also

commented that  competitive pressures, including competition  from foreign

producers,  remained strong  in  retail markets  around the  country  and also

in markets  for many producer  goods.

-12-

In  the  Committee's  discussion of policy  for the intermeeting

period ahead, all  of the members indicated that  they favored  or could

accept a directive  calling for  some  slight easing in reserve  conditions.

Members noted that monetary policy had been eased in  several  steps  over

the  course of  recent  weeks;  while  substantial  additional easing might

not be needed under prevailing  conditions,  a limited further move  would

provide  some added insurance  in  cushioning the economy against  the

possibility of  a deepening  recession and an  inadequate  rebound in the

economy without  imposing an unwarranted  risk of  stimulating  inflation

later.  The  members favored a cautious  approach to  further policy moves

in light  of the  appreciable  easing  in  reserve conditions that  already

had been implemented  and the  considerable  decline  that had occurred in

market  interest  rates.  The  stimulus provided by the  recent  easing

actions had not  yet  been felt  in the  economy, and  given the  lags that

were  involved, there was  some  risk of overdoing the easing of policy at

some point,  with potential  inflationary  consequences  once the  economic

recovery got  underway.  Most of the members  viewed  such a risk  as

relatively remote  and one  that  could be  dealt  with, should the need

arise, by a future tightening  of policy, although it was  recognized that

moves toward restraint  could be  difficult.  Persisting  weakness  in the

monetary aggregates tended to reinforce the  view that policy was  not

moving in a way that  would promote a resurgence in  inflation.  In

evaluating the behavior of  the monetary aggregates, members  stressed the

need for  policy to provide  adequate  liquidity in  a period of declining

economic  activity in order to encourage  economic recovery.

-13-

Growth of M2 had displayed an uneven pattern but  had tended to

weaken over the course of the year,  especially in recent months.  The

behavior of M2  was not  fully understood, but  it  appeared to be

associated, at  least  in the past year, with the  constrained availability

of  credit  from depository institutions  and with  lagging income  growth.

In addition, other  factors,  such as perceptions  of increased risks  in

holding deposit balances  in current  financial  circumstances,  seemed to

be affecting monetary expansion.  A staff projection prepared for this

meeting pointed to a pickup  in M2 growth over the months immediately

ahead, reflecting in part  a projected upturn in the  expansion of nominal

GNP  and the lagged effects of the  recent  declines in market  rates  on

demands  for money balances.  Members noted that  for the year  1990  as  a

whole, M2  would increase at  a rate within the  Committee's  range,  albeit

in the  lower half of that range  and that M2  growth had now been within

the  Committee's ranges  consistently in  recent  years.  While monetary

policy might  still  be viewed as  somewhat  restrictive  from the  standpoint

of monetary growth, members cited other indicators  such as  the  decline

in interest rates, the  shape  of the yield curve,  and conditions  in the

commodity and foreign exchange markets  as  indicative  of an adequate

provision of  liquidity and a basically satisfactory policy in current

circumstances.  Nonetheless, members  stressed the  need to maintain an

appropriate  rate of  monetary expansion, and they  generally concluded

that  the behavior of the monetary aggregates  would  need to  be monitored

with  special  care  in the  period ahead  for  any indication that  their

growth might be  falling significantly short  of  current  expectations.

-14-

During this  discussion, members noted the potential

interactions between open market  policy and a possible,  near-term

reduction in the  discount rate.  Most  of the  Federal Reserve Banks  had

proposed  a reduction of one-half percentage point  in  the discount  rate,

and in light  of their concerns about  the  narrowing spread between the

discount  rate  and  short-term market  rates,  the members  generally favored

Board approval of that  reduction to  implement  an easing  of  conditions  in

money markets.  Ordinarily, a reduction in  the  discount  rate  would show

through fully in lower short-term market  rates.  However,  because of

their desire to  ease  reserve  conditions  only  slightly in the near term,

the members  generally supported  a proposal to gear  open market

operations  toward allowing only about one-half  of the proposed  cut  in

the discount  rate  to be  reflected immediately  in the money market.  If

the  discount rate  were  not  reduced, the Manager  for Domestic Operations

would execute the  slight  easing of  policy through  open market operations

alone.  With regard to any  further  adjustment  in  the  degree  of  reserve

pressure  later in the intermeeting period, nearly all  the members

expressed a preference  for  retaining  a bias  in the directive toward

potential easing, especially given the  recessionary tendencies in the

economy,  current  fragilities  in the  financial  system, and the  weakness

in  the monetary  aggregates.

At the  conclusion  of the  Committee's discussion,  all  of the

members  indicated that  they  could support  a directive that  called  for

some slight  further  easing in the  degree  of  pressure on  reserve

positions and that  also provided for  giving emphasis to potential

developments  that  might  require  some  additional  easing  during the

-15-

intermeeting period.  It  was  recognized that  open market operations

initially might need to take  account of a possible  reduction in the

discount  rate.  Subsequent to the  initial easing,  slightly greater

reserve  restraint might be acceptable  during the  intermeeting period or

somewhat  lesser reserve  restraint  would be acceptable  depending on

progress toward price stability, the strength  of the business expansion,

the behavior of the monetary aggregates, and developments in  foreign

exchange and domestic financial markets.  The  reserve  conditions

contemplated by the Committee were  expected to  be  consistent with some

pickup in monetary growth, including expansion of M2  and M3  at annual

rates of about  4 and 1 percent  respectively over  the  four-month period

from November to March.

At the  conclusion of the meeting, the  following domestic policy

directive was  issued to the  Federal  Reserve Bank of  New York:

The information  reviewed at  this meeting suggests

appreciable weakening  in economic activity.  Total
nonfarm payroll  employment fell  sharply further  in
November,  reflecting widespread job  losses that  were
especially pronounced in manufacturing  and construc-
tion;  the  civilian unemployment  rate  rose  to 5.9
percent.  Industrial output  declined markedly in
October and November,  in part because  of  sizable
cutbacks  in the production of motor vehicles.  Retail
sales were  weak in real terms in October  and November;
real  disposable  income has  been reduced not  only by a
decrease  in total hours  worked but  also by the  effects
of higher  energy prices.  Advance  indicators of
business  capital  spending point to  considerable
softening  in  investment  in coming months.  Residential
construction has declined substantially further  in
recent months.  The nominal  U.S. merchandise  trade
deficit widened in October from  its average  rate  in
the third quarter  as non-oil  imports  rose more  sharply
than exports.  Increases  in consumer prices moderated
in November largely as  a result  of  a softening in  oil
prices.  The  latest  data  on labor costs  suggest  some
improvement  from earlier trends.

-16-

Most  interest  rates  have  fallen appreciably  since

the  Committee meeting on November 13.  In  foreign
exchange markets, the trade-weighted value  of the
dollar in terms of  the other  G-10 currencies  rose
slightly  on balance  over the  intermeeting period.

M2 was about  unchanged on balance  over October

and November after several months  of relatively
limited expansion, while M3  declined slightly  in both
months.  From the  fourth quarter of  1989 through
November,  expansion of M2 was  estimated to  be  in the
lower  half  of the  Committee's  range  for the  year  and
growth of M3  near the  lower  end of  its  range.
Expansion of  total domestic  nonfinancial debt  appears
to have  been near the midpoint  of  its monitoring
range.

The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks monetary

and financial  conditions that will  foster price
stability, promote growth in  output on a sustainable
basis,  and contribute to an  improved pattern of
international transactions.  In  furtherance of  these
objectives,  the Committee  at  its  meeting in July
reaffirmed the  range  it had established  in February
for M2 growth  of 3 to 7 percent, measured from the
fourth quarter of  1989  to the  fourth quarter of  1990.
The  Committee in  July also  retained the monitoring
range  of 5 to  9 percent  for the year  that  it had  set
for growth of  total  domestic  nonfinancial debt.  With
regard to M3,  the Committee  recognized that the  on-
going restructuring of thrift  depository institutions
had depressed its  growth  relative to  spending and
total credit more than anticipated 
the unexpectedly  strong M3  velocity, the  Committee
decided in July to  reduce the  1990  range to  1 to 5
percent.  For  1991,  the Committee  agreed on pro-
visional ranges  for monetary growth, measured from the
fourth quarter  of 1990  to the  fourth quarter of 1991,
of  2-1/2 to  6-1/2 percent  for M2  and  1 to 5 percent
for M3.  The  Committee  tentatively  set  the  associated
monitoring  range  for  growth of  total domestic  non-
financial  debt  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2 percent  for  1991.
The  behavior of  the monetary aggregates  will  continue
to be  evaluated in the  light  of  progress  toward price
level  stability, movements  in  their velocities,  and
developments  in  the economy and  financial markets.

Taking account  of

In  the  implementation of  policy  for  the  immediate

future, the  Committee  seeks  to  decrease  slightly  the
existing degree  of pressure  on reserve  positions,
taking account  of a possible  change  in  the  discount
rate.  Depending upon  progress  toward price  stability,
trends  in economic  activity, the behavior  of the

-17-

monetary aggregates, and developments in  foreign
exchange and domestic financial markets,  slightly
greater reserve  restraint might  or somewhat  lesser
reserve restraint  would be  acceptable in the  inter-
meeting period.  The contemplated reserve  conditions
are expected to be  consistent with growth of M2  and M3
over the period from November through March  at  annual
rates of about  4 and 1 percent,  respectively.

Votes for this action:  Messrs. Greenspan

Corrigan, Angell, Boehne,  Boykin, Hoskins,
Kelley, LaWare, Mullins, Ms.  Seger, and
Mr. Stern.  Votes against this  action:  None.

2. Authorization  for Domestic Open Market  Operations

The Committee approved a temporary increase  of $6 billion, to a

level of $14  billion, in the  limit  on changes between Committee meetings

in System Account  holdings  of U.S. government  and  federal agency

securities.  The increase  amended paragraph 1(a)  of the Authorization

for Domestic Open Market Operations and was  effective  for the  inter-

meeting period ending with the close of  business  on February  6, 1991.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan

Corrigan, Angell,  Boehne, Boykin,  Hoskins,
Kelley, LaWare, Mullins, Ms.  Seger,  and
Mr. Stern.  Votes against this  action:  None.

The Manager  for Domestic Operations  advised the Committee that

the  current  leeway of $8 billion for  changes  in System Account holdings

was  not likely to  be sufficient  to accommodate the potentially very

large need to drain  reserves over the  intermeeting period ahead.  That

need would reflect  a bulge  in available  reserves  stemming  from the

elimination of  reserve requirements on  nonpersonal time  deposits and  net

Eurocurrency liabilities  combined with the  effects of  seasonal

reductions in  currency in circulation and  in  required  reserves over  the

intermeeting period.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For Use  at  4:30  p.m. 

May 17,  1991

The  Federal  Reserve Board and the  Federal Open Market

Committee today  released the  attached record of policy  actions

taken by the  Federal Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

March 26,  1991.

The  record  for  each meeting of the  Committee  is made

available  a few days  after the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and subsequently  is  published in the  Federal Reserve Bulletin

and the  Board's Annual Report.  The  summary description of

economic and financial  conditions  contained in  each record  is

based solely  on the  information that  was  available  to the

Committee at  the  time  of  the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF POLICY ACTIONS OF THE
FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held  on March 26,  1991

Domestic policy directive

The information reviewed at this meeting suggested that

economic  activity had weakened  further in  the opening months  of the

year.  Production  cutbacks were evident  in a wide  range of  industries,

and private  payrolls had fallen markedly, especially in  the  goods-

producing  sector.  On the positive  side,  consumer  confidence had

rebounded sharply  since the  cease-fire  in  the  Persian Gulf,  retail  sales

and housing starts  had  strengthened  recently, and exports  had continued

to  expand.  Broad measures  of prices had  slowed or contracted in  January

and  February, but  excluding energy and  food prices,  increases in those

measures were  higher than in previous months.  Wage  increases had

moderated over the  past  several months.

Total nonfarm payroll  employment  fell  sharply  further in

February.  The  decline was widespread across  industries but  was

particularly pronounced in the durable  goods  segment  of manufacturing.

Construction employment  edged up  in February after  a steep drop  in

January,  when the weather  was unusually adverse.  The only major

industry to  post  a notable  job  increase was  health services.  The

civilian  unemployment  rate  rose to  6.5  percent  in  February.

Industrial  output  declined markedly again in February,  with

cutbacks evident  in a wide  range  of  industries.  Production of motor

vehicles and parts  slackened  after being about  unchanged on balance  over

the  previous two months;  output  of other final  products  continued  to

fall  in  February, with the exception of  computer equipment  which

advanced for  a second month.  Capacity utilization in most  major

industries  fell  further  in February;  in manufacturing, operating rates

were  substantially below their 1989  highs.

Shipments of nondefense  capital  goods increased  in February,

boosted by a sizable  advance in  shipments of aircraft  and parts;

categories other than aircraft were  down.  New orders  for business

equipment  suggested that  spending  on such goods would change  little  in

coming months.  Nonresidential  construction put-in-place  edged up  in

January from a downward-revised level for  December but  remained below

its  weak average  for  the  fourth quarter.  Available data  on contracts,

permits,  and office  vacancy rates pointed to  considerable  softness  in

nonresidential  construction activity in  coming months.  Manufacturing

and trade  inventories rose  considerably in  January after  little  net

change  in  the  fourth quarter.  With shipments  and  sales  down sharply

around the  turn of the year, the  ratio  of  inventories to  sales  in

manufacturing  and trade  continued to rise  in January.

After  declining considerably in  previous months,  retail  sales

turned up  in February.  Sales  at  general merchandise,  apparel, and

furniture  outlets  jumped  in February after posting  sizable declines over

the preceding  few months,  and purchases of  automobiles  and light  trucks

picked up  from the very  low sales  pace  in January.  Consumer sentiment

appeared to have  rebounded sharply  in  early March  from the low  levels

reached after  Iraq's  invasion of Kuwait.  In  February,  housing starts

more  than retraced a sharp January decline  but were  still  at  a low

level;  in particular, multifamily  construction activity remained very

weak.  Available  data and anecdotal  reports  indicated that  lower  home

prices  and mortgage  rates  were  stimulating  some  consumer  interest  in

purchasing homes.

The nominal  U.S. merchandise  trade  deficit  increased  slightly

from December to  January  but was  considerably below its  average  rate  in

the  fourth quarter.  The  value  of exports  picked  up  in  January  from the

strong fourth-quarter  level;  the  value of  imports declined  considerably,

mostly reflecting a  drop  in the  price  of  imported oil.  Among the major

foreign  industrial  countries,  economic  activity in  the  fourth  quarter of

1990  expanded more  slowly  in  Germany and  Japan, though there  had been

some  tentative  indications  of  a  pickup  in growth  early this year  in both

countries.  By  contrast,  some  weakening  in  activity apparently  had

occurred  in several  other major  industrial  countries.

Among major  components  of  broad measures  of inflation  for

January  and February, food prices  rose more  slowly or declined  on

balance  and  energy prices  fell  substantially  further;  however,  prices  of

items  other  than  food and energy  rose more  rapidly  than in preceding

months.  At  the producer level,  this pickup  reflected in  part  large

increases  in prices of motor vehicles.  At  the  consumer level,  increases

in  federal  excise  taxes  on some  items  and an  unusual  bunching of price

increases  at  the  beginning of the  year  had boosted prices  of  nonfood,

non-energy goods  and  services;  as  a  result,  the  percent  change  in  these

prices  over the twelve  months  ended  in  February was  considerably above

that  for  the  previous  twelve months.  Average  hourly  earnings of

production or  supervisory workers  were  little  changed over  January and

February;  for  the twelve months  ended in February,  these  earnings had

increased  at  a  slower  pace than in the  comparable year-earlier period.

-4-

At  its meeting on February  5-6,  the Committee  adopted a

directive  that  called  for maintaining the existing degree  of  pressure on

reserve positions but  for giving  special  weight  to potential

developments  that might  require  some  easing during the  intermeeting

period.  To reflect  the  tilt  toward  easing, the  directive  indicated that

somewhat lesser  reserve  restraint would be acceptable  in the

intermeeting period, or  slightly greater reserve  restraint might  be

acceptable, depending upon progress toward price  stability, trends  in

economic activity, the behavior  of the monetary aggregates,  and

developments  in foreign exchange  and domestic  financial markets.  The

contemplated reserve  conditions  were  expected to be  consistent  with

growth of both M2 and M3 at  annual  rates  of around  3-1/2 to  4 percent

over the period from December through March.

After the  Committee  meeting, open market  operations  initially

were directed at maintaining the  existing degree of  pressure  on reserve

positions;  subsequently,  in early March, in response to  information

suggesting that economic  activity  had continued to  decline  through

February, pressures on reserve positions  were eased  slightly.

Adjustment plus  seasonal  borrowing tended to run at  appreciably higher

levels than expected over  the  intermeeting period;  this  seemed to

reflect  in part  a greater willingness  of  banks to  seek discount-window

credit  when conditions  tightened in the  federal  funds market.  In  the

early part  of  the intermeeting period, federal  funds averaged  a bit

above  6-1/4  percent,  but  by the time  of the March meeting the  rate  had

dropped to about  6 percent.  The  federal  funds  rate was  less volatile

around its  average  level;  this  evidently reflected not  only the  change

in attitudes toward use of  the window but  also  the greater  experience of

banks in  operating under the  lower  reserve  requirement ratios put  in

place  late  last  year and the  rebound of required reserve  balances  from

their  seasonal low  in February.

Other  short-term interest  rates  had  declined slightly since  the

Committee meeting on February  5-6;  Treasury bill  rates  dropped by  less

than rates  on private instruments.  In  longer-term markets,  rates on

Treasury bonds  had  risen appreciably while  rates  on high-grade bonds  had

changed  little and  those  on lower-rated debt had fallen  substantially.

The  narrowing  in spreads  of private over Treasury rates  appeared to  stem

primarily from  investor assessments  of  improved prospects  for  a recovery

in U.S.  economic  activity and in business  earnings  and  thus  for  reduced

strains  on borrowers.  Stock prices moved up  considerably on balance

over  the  intermeeting period.

The trade-weighted value of the  dollar  in terms of  the  other

G-10  currencies  increased very sharply over the  intermeeting period.  In

addition to  optimism over the  prospects for  the U.S.  economy in the

aftermath  of the Persian Gulf war, there was  a growing perception by

market participants that  economic activity in the major trade  partners

of the  United States was  growing more  slowly or declining  and that  in

consequence interest-rate  spreads were likely to move in  favor of dollar

assets.  Political  difficulties in the  Soviet  Union also appeared to

affect  the  German mark  adversely.

At  least partly in response  to earlier declines in  interest

rates,  growth of M2  and M3  strengthened substantially  in February and

partial data  suggested appreciable further growth  in March.  Such

growth,  which was  faster than the Committee  had anticipated, brought M2

up  to the middle portion of its  annual  range  and put  M3  near the  upper

end of its  range.  Most of the acceleration in M2  reflected  rapid

expansion  in  its  liquid retail  deposit  instruments.  Offering  rates on

these accounts had  responded in typically  sluggish  fashion to  declines

in market  interest  rates  in  recent months, and the  opportunity costs

associated  with holding such deposits  had narrowed accordingly.  The

strength in M3  reflected not  only the  faster growth  of M2 but  also  in

part the  efforts  of  some  depository institutions,  in the  wake  of the

elimination  of the  reserve  requirement  on nontransaction accounts, to

replace  federal  funds  and Eurodollar borrowings  with funds  raised

through domestic issuance  of  large  certificates  of  deposit.

The  staff  projection prepared  for this meeting pointed to a

turnaround in the economy in  coming months.  While further  declines  in

activity were likely in the  very near  term, the  rebound  in business and

consumer  confidence  following the  declaration of  a cease-fire  in the

Persian Gulf, the positive effects  of  lower oil  prices  on household

purchasing power and of  earlier  declines in interest  rates on housing

demand, and the additional gains expected in exports were  likely to

foster an  upturn  in the  economy before  very long.  Subsequently,

increases  in  business  orders  and sales  could lead to  a further pickup  in

production,  given generally lean  inventories and,  with some  lag, to a

rise in  business spending for  investment  goods.  On the  other hand, the

reduced availability  of credit and the  effects  of  the overhang of

commercial structures  on commercial construction activity, along with a

moderately restrictive  fiscal policy, were  expected to continue  to exert

some  restraint on domestic demand.  Against  the background of  lower oil

prices  and some  added slack  in resource  utilization, the  staff projected

a slowing  in the pace  of  increases in prices  and  labor costs  in  coming

quarters.

In the  Committee's  discussion of the  economic outlook, members

saw improving prospects  for a recovery in business activity  some  time  in

the months  ahead, especially  in light  of the  sharp  rebound in consumer

and business  sentiment  since  the  cease-fire in  the Persian  Gulf war.  A

variety of  financial indicators,  including the  performance  of the  stock

and  bond markets  and the  foreign exchange markets, along with  faster

monetary growth suggested both that  an upturn in economic  activity was

widely  expected and that  liquidity had been made available to  support

it.  Thus  far,  however, the  surge  in consumer  confidence was  not

accompanied by appreciable evidence of  stronger  economic activity,

though the February  data in two  key  areas, retail  sales and housing

starts,  were positive  after  a period of  substantial weakness.  In the

view of many members,  the anticipated  upswing in economic activity might

be  relatively sluggish, at  least  in the  early stages  of the  recovery.

Consumers and businesses  probably would remain relatively cautious  in

the  context  of  continuing concerns  about  employment opportunities  as

well as  heavy debt  burdens and tight  constraints on  credit  availability;

in addition,  confidence was vulnerable to  further difficulties  in the

financial  sector.  Indeed, there was  some  risk that  the  recession could

deepen considerably  further, but  on balance the  conditions  seemed to be

in place for  a turnaround in  coming months.  With regard to the  outlook

for  inflation, members expressed disappointment  about the  lack  of

progress in  reducing its  underlying rate;  however,  they remained

optimistic that  reduced pressures  in markets  for  output  as well  as  for

key inputs,  indications of  some moderation  in wage increases,  a firmer

dollar, and weaker  commodity prices  all pointed to some  subsidence  in

inflation over  coming quarters.  The  slower  average rate  of money growth

over the course  of  recent  years  suggested a monetary policy that had for

some time been consistent  with  a gradual  diminution in inflation.

In their reports  on developments  around the  country, members

noted that  their contacts  indicated a sharp  rebound  in business

sentiment  since  the last  Committee meeting, mirroring the marked

increase of  consumer  confidence  as the  Persian Gulf war  drew to a

successful  close.  The  effects  of  this  change  in attitudes by both

producers  and  consumers were  not  yet  evident  in many statistical

measures  of economic  activity,  except  perhaps  in the  housing sector and

retail  sales.  Across the  nation, regional  economic activity  remained

uneven;  it  was  still  declining in some  areas, albeit  with increasing

signs  that  it might  be  stabilizing, and appeared to have  bottomed out  or

strengthened a little  in  other parts  of  the  country.  Manufacturing

activity  in particular remained depressed in many areas,  notably those

that  were  dominated by the  production of motor vehicles  and related

parts.  Members  commented that  many businesses, especially in the

construction industry, were  continuing to report  difficulties in

obtaining financing, but  both  loan demand and the  availability of

financing  showed  signs  of  improvement  in  some  areas.

In their  review  of  developments in key  sectors  of  the economy,

members emphasized that  the timing and strength  of the  recovery would

depend importantly  on how quickly and to what  extent  the rebound  in

consumer confidence  was translated into  increased consumer  spending.

The  performance of the consumer durables sector,  notably autos,  was  a

key element  in the outlook;  while expenditures  on durable goods  did not

appear to have  strengthened thus far,  developments that might  help to

stimulate  such  spending included greater  capital  gains realized  from

sales  of existing homes  and more  demand for  household durables stemming

from a possible pickup  in  the construction  of new homes.  Members  also

reported that  automobile  dealers had become more optimistic in many

areas.  However, many members  believed that  consumer expenditures were

likely to be  restrained by  a combination  of negative  factors  that

included concerns  about  job  security and debt  burdens.  Moreover, the

fiscal problems  of  state  and local  governments were  tending to erode

consumer confidence  in some parts  of the  country, and associated  fiscal

restraint measures would  limit  the  growth in disposable  incomes  in those

areas.

With regard to the  outlook  for business investment  spending,

stronger  consumer expenditures  in coming months  should  induce more

business  spending for inventories  and, with some  lag,  for new equipment,

especially  in light  of the  recent improvement  in  business  confidence.

On the negative  side,  if  a recovery in  consumer spending  failed to

materialize, the  upturn  in business confidence might  well reverse.  Such

a development  could foster  a sharp  drop  in business capital  appropria-

tions that  in turn would deepen and extend the  recession.  With regard

to  construction activity, members  commented that  problems of  over-

capacity were  likely  to limit  new nonresidential construction for  an

-10-

extended period in many areas.  On the  other hand, signs  of  renewed

buyer interest  in housing were  widespread, and indeed developments  in

this  sector of  the  economy were  seen by  some members as  the most

encouraging  indication of  a prospective economic  recovery.  Some  concern

was  expressed  regarding the  possibility that  persisting  constraints  on

the  availability of  financing to  homebuilders might  continue  to inhibit

homebuilding  activity, but  given the  expected strengthening in the

overall  economy and the already improving  capital positions of many

banking institutions,  a degree of  optimism seemed warranted that  such

financing might become more  readily obtainable in  the months ahead.

In the  view of many members, the external  sector of the  economy

was  likely  to make only a small  contribution to the  domestic expansion

in coming  quarters.  While continuing growth  in exports was  helping to

offset  some of the  weakness  in manufacturing, some members  referred to

the possibility that  further expansion  in world demand  for U.S.  exports

might  be curtailed by  slower growth  abroad  related to political

uncertainties  and economic  developments  in  several  nations;  a partial

offset  was the potential  for  large  reconstruction expenditures by

Kuwait.  The  recent appreciation of  the  dollar also would tend to

inhibit  net  exports over time.

Turning to  the  outlook  for  inflation, a number  of members

emphasized  that  recent  increases  in  producer and consumer  prices,

excluding  their food and energy  components, were  a disturbing

development  even though transitory  factors  helped to  account  for much  of

those increases.  Concerns  about  inflation  seemed to  be echoed  in

financial  markets,  judging  from the  recent  rise  in long-term interest

-11-

rates.  At the  same  time, however,  increases  in labor  compensation had

continued to trend down, with relatively high  unemployment levels

contributing to much reduced pressures on wages in many local  areas.  In

circumstances  characterized by strong competitive conditions  in most

industries and thus  widespread pressures on prices and profit  margins,

many business  firms continued to  seek  ways to  limit their labor  costs.

In this  connection, members  observed that  efforts  to hold down

employment levels were  likely to result  in  some  further  increases  in

unemployment  even after a recovery got  under way.  The  appreciation  of

the  dollar in recent months would tend with  some  lag to moderate

inflation pressures  over coming quarters.  On balance, the members

remained optimistic  about the prospects  for  appreciable reductions  in

the  core rate  of  inflation, given  their expectations  of  some  continuing

slack  in resource  use  and of monetary expansion at  a pace within the

Committee's  ranges  for the  year.

In the  Committee's discussion of  policy  for the  intermeeting

period ahead, all  of the members  supported a proposal to maintain an

unchanged degree  of pressure on  reserve positions.  The  System's policy

actions  over the  course of  recent months,  including two reductions  in

the discount  rate,  represented  substantial easing on a cumulative basis

and most probably had  positioned monetary policy to  contribute  to a

satisfactory recovery in business  activity.  Changing economic  and

financial  conditions  could, of  course, lead to  a reassessment, but  for

now a steady policy course  seemed indicated as  the  stimulative  effects

of earlier policy actions,  the  drop in oil prices,  and the  rebound in

confidence worked their  way through the  economy.  Some members  observed

-12-

that  the most  likely  direction of  the  next  policy move  was  not  clear at

this  point and that  caution was  needed before  any  action was taken.

Prevailing uncertainties  suggesting that  further easing  could not  be

ruled out  included the  possibility that  consumer  spending would not

strengthen materially and that business  capital  spending would  continue

to  weaken.  However, if  the  economy was  indeed near its  recession

trough, additional  easing  would not  be necessary  and such  a move might

add to  inflationary pressures  later.  On the  other  hand, while  a firming

of policy  clearly would be  premature  at  this  point, a number of members

commented that  the  Committee  should be alert  to the potential  need to

tighten reserve  conditions promptly if  emerging economic and financial

conditions,  including the  behavior of  the monetary  aggregates,

threatened progress toward price  stability.

Many of  the members  commented that  in  current  economic and

financial circumstances  the  strengthening in M2  growth in  February and

March was  a welcome development  following an extended period of limited

expansion.  The  faster growth tended to  support  expectations of a near-

term recovery in economic  activity.  It also might be  indicative  of  some

rebound of public  confidence in  depository institutions.  The  growth of

M2  for the year to date  was  near the  middle  of the  Committee's  annual

range,  but  if the  most  recent  rate  of M2  growth was to continue  for  some

time,  this might  signal the  need to tighten reserve  conditions to

forestall  a potential  intensification of  inflationary pressures.  How-

ever,  according to  a staff analysis  prepared for this  meeting, monetary

growth was  likely to  moderate  somewhat  over the  second quarter as  the

effects of  earlier  declines in market  interest  rates on opportunity

-13-

costs  and desired money holdings tended to  dissipate.  On the assumption

of an unchanged degree  of pressure  on reserve positions,  the  staff

projected the  cumulative  expansion of M2 to be  only slightly above the

midpoint  of the  Committee's  range  at midyear.

Members  expressed a range  of views  regarding possible

intermeeting adjustments to the  degree  of reserve  pressures,  but  a

majority preferred--and all  could accept--a  directive  that  did not

contain a bias toward tightening or easing.  A symmetric  directive

represented a shift  from previous  directives that  had been tilted toward

easing  since mid-1990, and  it  was  consistent with  an assessment  that  the

risks  to the economy had  shifted in  recent weeks  and were  now more

evenly balanced.  Further declines  in  economic activity would not  be

surprising--nor  should they necessarily be  seen  as  calling for

additional  ease,  given the  lags  in policy effects.  Under  current

circumstances, policy adjustments  should be  made only  in the  event  of

particularly conclusive  evidence,  which might  include a significant

deviation in  monetary growth  from current  expectations,  that  the

recession might be deeper or the  rebound less  robust  than anticipated.

Other members expressed a preference  for  retaining a directive  that  was

biased toward possible easing.  Some  of these members believed that,

despite  the improved prospects  for a recovery, there were  still  marked

risks  of  a prolonged recession  and of  a weak upturn, and  in these

circumstances  the Committee  should  react  relatively promptly to indica-

tions  that  the  economy was not moving toward a turnaround.  One  member

expressed a slight  preference  for  biasing the directive toward

restraint.  In  this  view, the  possibility of a continuing or  even a

-14-

deepening recession  could not be  ruled out,  but  the  greater risks  were

in  the  direction of too  much ease  and of persisting or  increasing

inflation;  consequently, the  directive  should envision any easing as  a

remote  prospect.

At  this meeting, the  interaction between  changes  in the

discount  rate,  as  approved by the  Board of  Governors,  and open market

operations,  as  implemented  under the  current  operating  procedures  and

directives  of  the Committee,  also was  discussed.  The  principal  issue

related to the  extent  to which  changes  in the  discount  rate  should  show

through to the  federal funds  rate that  would be expected in the

implementation of  open market  operations.  In  recent years,  changes  in

the  discount  rate usually  had been allowed to pass  through automatically

to the  federal  funds  rate;  there  had been  some  exceptions  involving

instances  where only partial  pass-throughs  had been permitted and where

the  change  in the  discount  rate  had been  intended to  conform the  latter

to movements  that  had already occurred in  the  federal  funds  rate.  In

general, however, both rates  had tended to move together over  time, and

appropriately so,  as  adjustments  to both policy instruments are made  in

the  context  of the  same economic and financial  developments.  Members

agreed that  in general the  existing practice should be  continued, but

that  consultation  among members of the  Committee  would be particularly

appropriate  in circumstances  where  changes  in  the  discount  rate perhaps

should  not be  permitted to show through entirely to market  rates,  or

where their  showing through would  result in quite  sizable  changes  in

money market  rates  in the  period between meetings.

-15-

At  the conclusion of the Committee's  discussion all  of the

members  indicated that  they favored a directive  that  called  for

maintaining the  existing degree  of  pressure on reserve  positions.  The

members  also noted that  they preferred or could accept  a directive that

did not  include  a presumption about  the  likely direction of any

intermeeting adjustments in policy.  Accordingly, the Committee decided

that  somewhat  greater reserve  restraint  or  somewhat  lesser  reserve

restraint might be  acceptable during the period ahead depending on

progress toward price  stability,  trends  in economic activity, the

behavior  of the  monetary aggregates,  and developments in foreign

exchange and domestic financial markets.  The  reserve conditions

contemplated at  this  meeting were  expected to be  consistent  with  some

reduction in the  growth of M2  and M3  from their  recent  pace to annual

rates of  around 5-1/2  and 3-1/2  percent  respectively over the three-

month period from March through  June.

At  the  conclusion of the meeting, the  following domestic policy

directive  was  issued to the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The  information reviewed at  this  meeting suggests
that economic activity weakened  further in the opening
months of  1991.  In February, total nonfarm payroll
employment  fell  sharply further, especially in manu-
facturing, and the civilian unemployment  rate  rose  to
6.5  percent.  Industrial output  also  declined markedly
again in  February, with cutbacks  evident  in a wide
range  of industries.  Advance indicators  point to
further weakness in  business fixed investment  in coming
months,  notably in nonresidential construction.  On the
other hand, after declining considerably in previous
months,  retail  sales  turned up  in  February;  consumer
sentiment  appears  to have rebounded  sharply in recent
weeks.  Housing starts  jumped in  February, retracing  a
sizable  decline  in January but  remaining at  a low
level.  The  nominal U.S. merchandise trade  deficit
increased somewhat  in January but  was  considerably
below its  average  rate  in  the  fourth quarter.  Energy
prices fell  substantially  further  in  January and

-16-

February, but  prices of  other consumer  goods  and
services  rose more  rapidly than  in preceding months.
Wage  increases have moderated in recent months.

Short-term interest  rates  have  declined slightly

since the  Committee  meeting on February 5-6.  In
longer-term markets, rates  on  Treasury bonds  have  risen
appreciably,  owing  at  least  in part  to heightened
expectations  of  a recovery  in U.S.  economic  activity.
Risk  premiums on corporate debt  instruments  have
declined,  and stock prices have moved  up  considerably
on balance.  The  trade-weighted value of  the  dollar  in
terms  of  the  other  G-10  currencies  increased very
sharply  over the  intermeeting period.

Growth of M2  and M3  strengthened  substantially in

February,  reflecting rapid expansion in  liquid retail
deposits;  partial  data  suggest appreciable  further
growth  in March.

The  Federal Open Market  Committee  seeks monetary

and financial  conditions that will  foster price
stability, promote  a resumption of  sustainable growth
in output,  and contribute  to an improved pattern of
international transactions.  In  furtherance of these
objectives,  the  Committee  at  its meeting  in February
established  ranges for  growth of M2  and M3  of  2-1/2  to
6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent,  respectively,
measured from the  fourth quarter of  1990  to  the  fourth
quarter of 1991.  The monitoring range  for  growth  of
total domestic nonfinancial debt  was  set  at  4-1/2  to
8-1/2  percent  for  the year.  With regard to M3,  the
Committee  anticipated that the  ongoing  restructuring of
thrift  depository institutions would continue  to
depress  its  growth relative to  spending and  total
credit.  The behavior  of the monetary aggregates will
continue  to be  evaluated  in the  light  of progress
toward price  level  stability, movements  in their
velocities,  and developments  in the economy  and
financial markets.

In the  implementation of policy for  the  immediate

future,  the  Committee seeks  to maintain the  existing
degree of  pressure  on  reserve positions.  Depending
upon progress  toward price  stability,  trends in
economic  activity, the behavior of  the monetary
aggregates,  and developments  in  foreign exchange  and
domestic  financial markets, somewhat  greater reserve
restraint  or  somewhat  lesser reserve  restraint might be

-17-

acceptable  in the  intermeeting period.  The contem-
plated reserve  conditions  are  expected to be  consistent
with growth of M2 and M3  over the  period  from March
through June  at  annual  rates  of  about  5-1/2  and 3-1/2
percent, respectively.

Votes  for this action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell, Black, Forrestal,  Keehn,
Kelley, LaWare,  Mullins, and Parry.

Votes against this  action:  None.

FEDERAL  RESERVE  press  release

For Use at  4:30 p.m. 

May 18,  1990

The Federal Reserve  Board and the Federal  Open Market

Committee  today released the  attached record of policy actions

taken by the  Federal Open Market Committee  at  its meeting on

March 27,  1990.

Such records  for each meeting of the Committee  are  made

available  a few days after the next  regularly scheduled meeting

and are  published in the Federal  Reserve Bulletin and the Board's

Annual Report.  The  summary descriptions of economic and  financial

conditions  they contain are  based  solely on the information that

was available  to the Committee at  the time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF  POLICY ACTIONS OF  THE

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held on March 27,  1990

1.  Domestic policy  directive

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggested  some pickup

in the  expansion of  economic activity  from the  upward-revised but  still

sluggish  pace  now indicated  for the  fourth quarter.  Although the

strengthening reflected, at  least  in  part,  favorable weather  and a

rebound from strike-related disturbances  late  in  1989,  underlying

demands  appeared to be  continuing to  expand  at  a moderate pace.  Revised

data  signaled more  momentum in  final  sales  near year-end than had been

indicated  previously, and  robust  employment  growth  in  January and

February  suggested that  output,  especially in  the  service-producing

sector, was  being well maintained.  Despite  a rebound  in the motor

vehicles  industry, manufacturing activity remained  sluggish.  Consumer

prices  rose more  rapidly over January and February,  only partly as  a

result  of  increases  in  the  prices of  food and  energy items;  wage  data

pointed to  no  significant  change  in prevailing trends.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  increased sharply  in the  first

two months  of  the  year after growing at  a reduced pace on  average  in

previous months.  Employment  in  construction  jumped, apparently as  a

result  of  unusually good weather, and  job  gains  in  the  services

industries  continued  strong, notably in  health services.  In the

manufacturing  sector, employment  was  down on balance over the  January-

February period despite the  return to  work in  February  of  auto workers

laid off  at  the  start  of  the year;  job  losses  were  evident  in  a number

of  industries,  including electrical  equipment, machinery,  and lumber.

The  civilian unemployment  rate  remained at  5.3  percent  in both  January

and February.

In February, industrial  production retraced more than half of  a

sharp  January decline,  reflecting a swing in the production of motor

vehicles.  Abstracting from a variety of transitory influences

associated with unusual  winter weather, a strike  in the  aircraft

industry late  last  year,  and an  inventory correction in the motor

vehicles  sector,  industrial production had been  flat  on balance  since

last  autumn.  In February, total  industrial  capacity utilization

partially recovered from a substantial January  decline but  remained

below the high  level of a year  earlier.

Real  personal  consumption expenditures,  abstracting from  swings

in  spending for motor vehicles  and energy-related  items,  were about  flat

in January after expanding at  a relatively slow pace  in the two previous

months.  Outlays  for  goods other than  fuel  oil  and motor vehicles  had

been weak  while expenditures  for  services had  remained strong.  Total

retail  sales  rose  on balance  in  January and February,  but adjusted for

recent  increases  in prices, sales  in February probably were  little

changed from the  fourth-quarter average.  Unusually mild weather

contributed to a higher level  of  housing  starts  in January  and February.

Single-family construction was  strong  in both months;  in the multi-

family  sector,  starts  fell  sharply in February but  averaged somewhat

above  the  fourth-quarter pace  over the two months.

Business  capital  spending, adjusted  for inflation, appeared to

have  turned up after  a decline  in the  fourth quarter.  Shipments  of

nondefense  capital  goods  rose  sharply in February  following a sizable

advance  in January associated with a rebound in  shipments  of aircraft  to

domestic firms  after the  strike  late in  the  fourth  quarter.  The

February increase  reflected greater purchases  of  communications

equipment  and many types of industrial  machinery, as  well as  a further

rise  in  shipments of aircraft.  New orders  for  nondefense  capital  goods,

excluding aircraft,  rose  in February and were  considerably above  their

fourth-quarter  level.  Nonresidential construction activity rebounded in

January from a substantial  December decline,  as  the weather turned

unseasonably warm;  however, data  on construction  contracts  and building

permits  continued to  suggest  a soft  outlook  for  coming months.

Manufacturers' inventories  rose  in  January, largely because of  increases

in  stocks of work-in-process in the  transportation equipment  sector.

Outside  of  transportation equipment,  the  inventory-to-shipments  ratio

had changed little  on balance since  mid-1988.  At  the  retail  level,

reductions in  auto  dealers'  stocks more than accounted  for declines  in

inventories  in  December and January.

The  nominal U.S.  merchandise trade deficit  widened in  January

from a sharply  lower December  rate,  as  the value of  imports  rose more

than that  of exports.  Nevertheless,  the  deficit  remained essentially

unchanged  from the  fourth-quarter average.  Much of the  sharp  increase

in  the  value of  imports  in January reflected  a jump  in  imports  of oil;

however, imports  of  consumer goods,  foods,  and industrial  supplies  also

rose  strongly.  Exports  increased  substantially in January to a level

well  above their  fourth-quarter  average.  Indicators of  economic

activity  in the major  foreign industrial countries  generally  suggested

strength in the  continental  European economies,  notably France,  Germany,

and Italy.  Among other industrial  countries,  growth had slowed in  Japan

and  had  remained sluggish  in the United Kingdom and Canada.

Producer  prices  for  finished goods  were  unchanged in  February,

as  energy prices partially  retraced their sharp  rise  in  January and food

prices rose more  slowly.  At  the consumer  level,  prices  rose  less

rapidly  in  February than  in January, but  the  increases  in both months

were  substantial  and the  pickup  from 1989  was  only partly the  result  of

increases in  prices of  food and energy  items.  Among  other goods  and

services,  several components  posted  sizable  increases.  Average hourly

earnings  fluctuated considerably  in January  and February,  owing to

shifts  in employment  status  among manufacturing  and construction

workers, but  the  year-over-year increase  remained  in the  range  evident

since  late  1988.

At  its meeting on February  6-7,  1990,  the  Committee  had adopted

a directive that  called for  maintaining the  existing degree  of pressure

on reserve  positions  and that provided for  giving equal  weight to

developments that might  require  an adjustment  in  either direction during

the  intermeeting period.  The  Committee had agreed  that  some  firming or

some  easing in  reserve  conditions would be  equally  acceptable  during the

intermeeting period, depending on  progress  toward price  stability, the

strength of the business  expansion, the behavior  of  the monetary

aggregates,  and developments  in foreign exchange  and domestic  financial

markets.  The  contemplated reserve conditions  were  expected to  be

consistent with growth of  M2  and M3  over the period  from December

through March at  annual  rates of  about  7 and  3-1/2 percent  respectively.

Reserve  conditions  had remained essentially unchanged  over the

period  since  the February meeting.  Excluding  some  special-situation

borrowing  early in the  intermeeting period that was  related to  liquidity

pressures  at  one  sizable bank, adjustment  plus  seasonal borrowing  had

averaged  about  $160  million in the three  full  reserve maintenance

periods  since the meeting.  The  federal  funds  rate  held steady  at  about

8-1/4 percent  over the period, but  other  short-  and  intermediate-term

interest  rates  edged higher,  apparently reflecting the  interpretation  by

financial markets of  incoming economic data  as  pointing, on balance, to

some  firming  of economic activity and to  persisting price pressures.

Treasury bond yields  fluctuated over a fairly wide  range,  falling

slightly on balance over  the period, while major  indexes of  stock prices

rose  somewhat.  The collapse  of  a major  securities firm had  little

effect  on investment-grade financial markets, but the  failure,  along

with potential  sales of  low-rated bonds  by some  large  institutional

holders,  contributed to a further widening of  the yield spread between

noninvestment-grade instruments and other long-term securities.

In  foreign  exchange markets, the  trade-weighted value of the

dollar  in terms  of  the  other G-10  currencies rose  over the  intermeeting

period.  The  dollar's  appreciation occurred at  a time when  short-  and

long-term interest  rates  abroad were  increasing relative to interest

rates  in  the United States.  Much of the  rise  of the  dollar was  against

the yen and the  pound sterling, but  the dollar  also  gained relative  to

the mark.  The  strength  of the  dollar apparently owed in part  to

perceptions that  the U.S.  economy might  be  strengthening and to market

concerns regarding various political  and financial  difficulties  in key

foreign countries.

Growth of M2  rose  in February from a reduced January pace,

reflecting strength in transaction  and other  liquid accounts;  partial

data suggested  some moderation in March.  On balance, the  expansion of

M2 had  been damped somewhat  in early 1990  by the  rise in  opportunity

costs  of holding M2  instruments, as  offering  rates on retail  deposits,

especially at  shorter maturities,  had  not  been adjusted upward in line

with the  rise  in market rates.  Growth of M3  also  picked up in February

but  remained below that  of M2.  The  expansion of this aggregate

continued to be  curbed by the  apparent  ongoing contraction in the  assets

and associated  funding needs  of thrift  institutions.

The  staff projection prepared for  this meeting suggested that

the  economy was  likely to expand  at  a somewhat  faster pace  over the  next

several  quarters than in the  fourth quarter of  1989.  Consumer demand

was  expected to pick  up  substantially from the fourth-quarter pace  but

to  grow at  a more moderate rate  later.  Business  capital  spending was

likely to increase, though the  rise  could be  limited by further  downward

pressure  on profit margins  associated with relatively sluggish growth of

final  demands.  Greater  caution on the part  of  lenders might  tend to

restrain  spending, especially for  commercial  real  estate,  and  some  of

the  recent  weather-related boost  to nonresidential  construction activity

and homebuilding  was  expected to be  reversed in  coming months.  Net

exports were  projected to make little  contribution to growth of domestic

production over the  rest  of  the year.  The  projection assumed moderate

restraint  on expenditures at  all  levels  of  government.  On balance,  the

need to  contain inflation might  involve  some additional  pressures  in

financial markets.  Price  pressures were  expected to  ease  only

gradually, and little  improvement was  anticipated in  the underlying

trend of  inflation over the projection horizon.

In the  Committee's discussion of  the economic  situation  and

outlook,  members  observed that  the  latest  information,  including recent

revisions to  data released earlier,  suggested a somewhat  stronger

economic performance  than had  been apparent  at  the time  of  the  February

meeting.  The  employment  statistics  for  January and  February exhibited

particular strength, but  members cautioned that  the  latter had  to be

weighed  against  indications  of relatively  restrained growth  in overall

spending.  Several commented that  it  was more  difficult  than usual  to

discern  underlying economic trends  because  of  the  temporary effects  of

unusual  weather conditions  and other  special  factors  in  recent  months.

Developments  on  the  financial  side,  including the possibility  of  reduced

credit  availability, constituted a risk  to the  continuing expansion.  On

balance,  however,  the members viewed sustained growth in  business

activity as  a reasonable  expectation for  the next  several quarters.

With  regard to  the outlook  for  inflation, they  recognized that much of

the  recent  surge  in  key measures of  inflation could be  attributed to

transitory, weather-related factors  that had  resulted  in  sharp  increases

in the  prices  of  food and  energy, but  they  also expressed a great deal

of  concern about  the  apparent  lack of  improvement  in  underlying

inflation trends.  While  the economy  seemed to  be  on a course  that

should prove  consistent with  reduced inflationary pressures over  time,

given appropriate  fiscal  and monetary policies,  recent  developments

suggested that  little  or  no  progress toward lower  inflation was likely

to  be made  during the quarters  immediately ahead.

Members  reported that  business  conditions remained uneven  in

different  sectors of  the  economy and  in  different  parts of  the country,

depending on the mix of  local  industries,  but  overall  activity appeared

to  be growing  at  least  modestly  in most  if  not  all  regions.  Further

expansion for  the  nation as  a whole was  likely to  be  sustained mainly by

consumer expenditures,  though growth in  the  latter might  well moderate

somewhat  over the  quarters  ahead in  conjunction with reduced gains  in

disposable incomes.  In  addition, the  agricultural and  energy sectors of

the economy, which appeared to have  strengthened in  some  regions,  could

provide  important  support to the  overall  expansion in  business activity.

Foreign trade  was characterized by  some members as  the  area  of  greatest

uncertainty  in the business  outlook.  Foreign demand was helping to

maintain production  in  a number of  industries that were  experiencing

reduced domestic demand,  and some  improvement in  the  overall  trade

balance was anticipated in  response to  the earlier depreciation of  the

dollar  and to  stronger  economic  growth in a number  of  foreign countries.

Business  fixed investment  could continue  to be  inhibited by weak profit

margins and an  excess  of commercial  space  in  many parts of  the  country,

though members  reported that  substantial  commercial  building activity

remained under way  in  several  regions.  Residential construction had

been  relatively vigorous  in  recent months,  reflecting exceptionally

favorable  weather conditions  in many parts  of  the country;  however,

current mortgage  rates  together  with  financing difficulties being

experienced by  some builders  and depressed housing markets in many areas

were  seen as  pointing to weaker  housing activity over the quarters

ahead.  With regard to the  government  sector,  growth in  federal spending

for goods and  services was  projected to be relatively restrained;  in

addition, many  state and  local governments were  experiencing budgetary

problems that  were  likely to  lead them to curb spending or to raise

taxes.

Financial  developments  introduced a degree  of uncertainty into

the current  economic  situation;  on the whole, they  were  likely to exert

some restraining influence  on overall  economic activity, though it was

difficult  to  judge  their quantitative  significance.  Interest  rates  had

increased noticeably  since year-end;  this  rise probably reflected

growing concerns about inflation  in conjunction with a stronger  near-

term outlook for  the economy, but  higher interest  rates  likely would

damp  demand, especially in construction and other  interest-sensitive

sectors.  In  addition, members  had heard numerous  reports  of reduced

availability of credit  to smaller  businesses, notably home builders.

Credit terms  also were  reported to have been tightened by  some  lenders

on new auto  loans and  home equity loans.  However, outside  of lending

for corporate  restructuring purposes  and certain real  estate

transactions,  it was difficult  to  find  firm indications of  greater

credit rationing  in aggregate  financial  statistics.  Some  tightening of

credit  standards  probably was  a desirable  development  in terms  of

correcting  for past  excesses and adjusting to  a more moderate pace  of

business activity, but a number of members expressed concern that

-10-

significant  further restraint  on credit  availability, should  it  occur,

could have  adverse consequences  for  the overall economy.

Turning to the outlook for  prices and wages, members  commented

that,  while increases  in key measures of  inflation were  likely to

moderate  after their recent  spurt,  the prospects  for  inflation remained

the most disturbing aspect  of the  economic outlook.  Apart  from what

appeared to be transitory hikes in  food and energy  costs in late  1989

and early  1990,  a number of other prices had increased somewhat more

rapidly than earlier,  and that  development tended to underscore  the

deeply imbedded nature  of the  current  inflation problem.  Despite

relatively tight  conditions  in labor markets, the trend in labor

compensation costs did not  appear to be worsening, but  some members

expressed concern that  wage pressures might  increase if  inflation did

not  recede  from its  recent pace.  On the other hand, the  intensity of

competition in many markets made  it  difficult  or  impossible  for  affected

businesses to pass on  cost  increases  in the  form of  higher prices,  and

the addition of new plant  capacity would heighten  competition in a

number of industries.  On balance,  little or  no progress  in reducing

inflation appeared to be in prospect  for the quarters  immediately ahead,

but  if  recent  developments did not  lead to a worsening of  inflationary

expectations, a decline  in  cost pressures and the underlying rate  of

inflation still  appeared likely for the longer  run  in the context  of

sustained, moderate  growth in economic activity.

In the  Committee's discussion of policy  for the intermeeting

period ahead, most  of the  members  indicated a preference  for main-

taining an  unchanged degree of pressure on reserve positions.  While

-11-

recent  economic information  could be  interpreted as pointing to a

reduced risk of a recession and to greater or  at  least more deeply

imbedded inflationary pressures than were  foreseen earlier, these

members concluded that  it  would be premature to tighten reserve

conditions on  the basis  of a few months  of data, particularly  in light

of the special  factors  at work that made it  difficult to assess

underlying trends.  Some  of these members  also noted that  various

developments,  including the  rise  in most  interest rates  since the

beginning of the year, the more recent  strength of the  dollar in foreign

exchange markets,  indications  of  some  slowing in monetary growth, and

the apparent  tightening of  credit  standards  could be viewed as  having

the  same  effects on the economy as  a modest  firming of  reserve

conditions.  Because a firming of policy would be  unexpected, it  could

prove unsettling in the  foreign exchange  markets and in  financial

markets more  generally.  On balance,  in light  of the uncertainties that

were involved,  these members preferred to maintain a steady policy

course for  now, subject to  a careful  evaluation  during the  intermeeting

period of developments that  might  signal  some  intensification of

inflationary pressures.  A few members, who were  particularly concerned

about the  outlook  for inflation, preferred  an immediate move to somewhat

tighter reserve conditions, especially if the  directive for  this meeting

did not  include a presumption that  any intermeeting  adjustments were

more likely to  be in the  direction of  some  tightening.  In  their view

the  risks to the  expansion of  some modest  firming were minimal under

current conditions,  and  those risks  needed to be accepted to  place

-12-

monetary policy more firmly on an anti-inflationary course  consistent

with the  Committee's  objectives.

During the  Committee's  discussion, members referred to a staff

analysis  that pointed to some reduction in the expansion  of M2 over  the

months  ahead on the  assumption of an unchanged degree  of reserve

pressures.  It was  recognized that the  rate  of M2 growth  could fluctuate

over a relatively wide  range  during the  second quarter,  as balances were

adjusted in  conjunction with large  seasonal  tax payments.  Additional

uncertainty  related to the  possibility of  a major increase  in expendi-

tures  by the Resolution Trust Corporation,  associated with  resolving the

affairs  of intervened thrift  institutions,  that would tend to depress

monetary growth,  especially M3,  by  substituting in effect Treasury

financing  for monetary liabilities.  Apart from such special  factors,

monetary growth could be expected to moderate somewhat  in lagged

response  to the earlier  updrift  in interest  rates  and  less  rapid

expansion of  nominal GNP.  A number  of members  commented that M2  growth

at  a rate  somewhat  below the pace that  had prevailed on average since

mid-1989 and more  comfortably within the  Committee's  range  for the year

would be  a welcome development;  such growth would enhance the  prospects

of  reconciling the  objectives of  sustained economic  expansion with the

need for progress  in  bringing inflation under  control.

In regard  to possible intermeeting adjustments  in the  degree  of

reserve  pressure,  a majority of the members  indicated that  they

preferred a directive that  did not bias  prospective  operations toward

tightening or  easing.  Many of  these members agreed that  the  risks  of  a

recession appeared to have  receded and that  intermeeting developments

-13-

should  be  watched with  special  attention to  potential developments that

might  signal  an intensification of  inflationary pressures.  Nonetheless,

because  of  the considerable  uncertainty  surrounding the near-term

outlook, they  did not  want to  include  a presumption in  the  directive

about  the  likely direction of  any adjustment.  In  addition, adoption of

a directive  tilted toward some  firming could be viewed as  having greater

policy  implications  than  usual because  it  would represent  a change  from

recent  directives  and  from the  thrust  of  policy  since the  spring of

1989.  It  also would be  inconsistent  with the preference  of  a number  of

members  for making any  intermeeting adjustment toward  tightening at  this

stage  only on the  basis  of  relatively conclusive  economic,  financial,  or

money  supply developments.  Other members  indicated that  their  concerns

about  the prospects  for  inflation inclined them to  favor  a directive

that  was  tilted toward possible  firming during the  intermeeting period.

It  was  noted in  this  connection that  even  in the  absence of  any  firming

during the period ahead,  the subsequent  release of  such a directive

would underscore  the  Committee's readiness  to take  prompt and

appropriate  steps to bring inflation under  control.

At  the  conclusion of the Committee's  discussion, all but  two of

the members  indicated that  they preferred or  could accept  a directive

that  called for maintaining the  current  degree of  pressure  on reserve

positions and that  did not  include any presumption about  the  likely

direction of  any intermeeting adjustments  in  policy.  Accordingly,

slightly  greater or  slightly lesser  reserve  restraint  would be

appropriate  during the period ahead depending on progress toward price

stability, the  strength  of  the business  expansion, the  behavior  of the

-14-

monetary aggregates,  and  developments  in foreign  exchange and domestic

financial markets.  The  unchanged reserve conditions  contemplated at

this meeting were  expected to be  consistent with growth of M2  and M3  at

annual  rates  of about  6 percent  and 4 percent  respectively over  the

three-month period  from March  through June.  The  intermeeting range  for

the  federal  funds  rate,  which provides one mechanism for  initiating

consultation of the  Committee when  its boundaries  are  persistently

exceeded, was left  unchanged  at  6 to  10  percent.

At  the  conclusion  of  the meeting, the  following domestic policy

directive was issued  to the Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The  information reviewed at  this meeting suggests
some  pickup  in the expansion  of  economic  activity from
the  sluggish rate  in the  fourth quarter.  Total non-
farm payroll employment increased  sharply  in January
and February after growing at  a reduced pace  on
average in previous months;  a surge  in  the  service-
producing sector and a weather-related rebound in
construction were  only partly  offset  by a net  decline
in manufacturing.  The  civilian unemployment  rate
remained at  5.3  percent.  In February,  production in
the manufacturing sector  retraced its  large  January
decline,  reflecting a swing  in the  production of motor
vehicles.  Consumer  spending has  been affected in
recent months by  fluctuations in  expenditures  for
motor  vehicles  and energy-related items  but  on balance
has  expanded at  a relatively  slow pace;  outlays  for
goods  have  been weak  while  expenditures  for  services
have  remained strong.  Unusually mild weather con-
tributed to  a higher level  of  housing starts  in
January and February.  Business capital  spending,
adjusted for  inflation, appears to  have  turned up
after  a decline  in the  fourth quarter,  reflecting  a
pickup  in expenditures  on motor vehicles and  aircraft.
The  nominal  U.S. merchandise trade  deficit  widened in
January from its  low December  rate but  remained at
roughly its  fourth-quarter  average.  Consumer prices
rose more  rapidly over  January and February,  only
partly as  a result  of  increases  in  prices  of  food  and
energy.

-15-

Most  short-  and  intermediate-term interest  rates

have  risen  a little  since  the  Committee meeting on
February  6-7;  rates  in long-term debt markets show
mixed changes  over the  period.  In  foreign exchange
markets,  the trade-weighted value  of  the  dollar in
terms  of the  other G-10  currencies rose  over the
intermeeting period;  much of  the  appreciation of the
dollar  was against  the  yen.

Growth of M2 and M3  picked up considerably  in

February, reflecting  strength in  transaction and other
liquid  accounts;  partial data  for March  suggested  some
slowing  from the  February pace.

The  Federal Open Market  Committee seeks monetary

and financial  conditions that will  foster  price
stability, promote growth in  output on a sustainable
basis,  and contribute to  an  improved pattern of  inter-
national transactions.  In  furtherance of  these
objectives, the  Committee at  its meeting in February
established  ranges  for  growth of M2  and M3  of  3 to  7
percent  and 2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent  respectively,
measured from the  fourth quarter  of  1989 to  the  fourth
quarter of  1990.  The monitoring range for  growth of
total  domestic nonfinancial  debt  was  set  at  5 to  9
percent  for  the year.  The  behavior of  the monetary
aggregates will  continue  to be evaluated  in the  light
of  progress toward price level  stability, movements in
their velocities,  and developments  in  the economy  and
financial markets.

In  the  implementation  of  policy for  the  immediate

future, the  Committee  seeks  to maintain the  existing
degree  of pressure  on reserve  positions.  Taking
account  of progress  toward price  stability, the
strength of the  business expansion, the  behavior of
the monetary aggregates, and developments in  foreign
exchange and  domestic financial markets,  slightly
greater reserve  restraint or  slightly  lesser  reserve
restraint  would be acceptable  in  the  intermeeting
period.  The  contemplated  reserve conditions  are
expected to  be  consistent with growth  of M2 and M3
over the  period from March through  June  at  annual
rates  of  about  6 and 4 percent  respectively.  The
Chairman may  call  for  Committee consultation if  it
appears to  the Manager for  Domestic Operations that
reserve  conditions during the period before the  next
meeting are  likely to be  associated with a federal
funds  rate  persistently outside  a range  of  6 to  10
percent.

-16-

Votes  for  this action:  Messrs. Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell, Boehne,  Johnson, Kelley,  LaWare,
Ms.  Seger, and Mr. Stern.  Votes  against  this
action:  Messrs. Boykin  and Hoskins.

Mr.  Boykin dissented because  he  felt that  the  risks were  on the

side  of accelerating inflation and, therefore, he preferred a policy

directive  tilted toward increased reserve pressures  should there be

indications  of greater than anticipated strength in economic activity

during  the  intermeeting period.  He  stated that  an asymmetric  directive

leaning toward firmer  reserve pressures would convey  important  and

stabilizing  information to  the  financial markets about the  seriousness

of  the  Federal Reserve in pursuing its  goal  of price  stability.

Mr.  Hoskins  dissented because he preferred an  immediate  firming

of  reserve  conditions.  In his  view, inflation pressures remained

relatively  strong and suggested that  greater monetary restraint was

necessary to  facilitate progress toward the  Committee's long-term goal

of  price  stability.  He  was  concerned that  any  delay  in tightening

policy might lead to the need for more aggressive actions  later.

2. Authorization  for Domestic Open Market  Operations

The Committee approved a temporary increase of  $4 billion, to a

level of $12  billion, in the  limit  between Committee meetings on  changes

in  System Account holdings  of  U.S.  government  and federal  agency

securities.  The increase  amended paragraph  1(a)  of the Authorization

for  Domestic Open Market Operations  and was  effective  for the

intermeeting period ending with the  close  of business on May 15,  1990.

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell,  Boehne,  Boykin, Hoskins,
Johnson, Kelley, LaWare,  Ms.  Seger,  and Mr. Stern.
Votes  against this action:  None.

-17-

This  action was taken on  the  recommendation of  the Manager  for

Domestic Operations.  The Manager had advised that  the current  leeway of

$8 billion for  changes  in  System Account holdings  might  not  be

sufficient  over the  intermeeting period because  of  a large  projected

rise  in  Treasury balances  at  the  Federal  Reserve Banks  after the  tax

payment date  in mid-April.

3.  Authorization for  Foreign Currency Operations

At  this meeting, the Committee  reviewed  its  operations in  the

foreign currency markets.  Transactions for  System Open Market  Account

in  those markets  are  carried out  within the  general  framework of  policy

on  exchange  rates established by the U.S.  Treasury  in  consultation with

the  Federal Reserve and  are  implemented at  the Federal Reserve  Bank of

New  York, typically in  conjunction with similar  transactions for  the

U.S.  Treasury's  Exchange  Stabilization Fund  (ESF).  Members  commented

that  such  operations at  times  can serve  a useful  purpose, especially in

helping to  avert  or  to correct  disorderly  conditions  in  the  foreign

exchange  markets.  At  the  same time,  many expressed strong skepticism

that  intervention operations can by themselves  have a lasting  effect  on

the  value  of  the dollar  in foreign currency markets,  given that  the

effects  of  these  operations  on bank  reserves are  routinely sterilized.

However,  some argued that  even sterilized  intervention can,  in  some

circumstances,  have  desired  effects on  exchange  rates,  especially if

carried out  in  concert  with parallel  operations by the monetary

authorities of  other nations  or  if  such  operations  signal  adjustments to

fiscal  or monetary policies.

-18-

Over  the  past year, very  large  purchases  of  foreign currencies

had raised  System holdings  to  historically high levels, although

relative  to U.S.  imports  such holdings  were  still moderate  compared with

those of  other  countries.  Some members expressed concern that  the

increased System holdings carried the risk  of  sizable  losses  if  the

dollar were  to strengthen substantially.

While  recognizing the potential  difficulties  that were

involved, a majority of  the members agreed that  continued System

operations  in the  foreign exchange markets  in association with Treasury

transactions  can  serve  a useful purpose.  Such  operations can  contribute

to  national economic objectives under  certain  circumstances, and the

System should  continue  to participate  in  the  formulation  of  exchange

rate policy.  However, they  also  felt  that the  cumulative amount of

foreign currency operations  for  System Account  might have been more

limited than had been the  case  over the  past year.

At  the  conclusion of this  discussion, the  Committee approved an

increase  from  $21  billion to  $25  billion in the  limit  on holdings  of

foreign currencies  that  is  specified in paragraph  1.D of the Committee's

Authorization for Foreign  Currency Operations.  That  limit  applies to

the  overall open position in  all  foreign  currencies  held  in the  System

Open Market  Account and  is  based on historical acquisition  costs.  The

limit  had been  increased  in steps  from  $12  billion in May  1989  to  $21

billion  in December  1989.  While purchases  of  foreign currencies had

been relatively limited in  recent months,  such purchases  in combination

with accruing interest  on holdings  had  raised the  total  to nearly  $21

billion at  the  time of the meeting.

-19-

Votes  for this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Boehne,  Boykin,  Johnson, Kelley, Ms.  Seger,
and Mr. Stern.  Votes against  these actions:  Messrs.
Angell,  Hoskins,  and LaWare.

Messrs. Angell,  Hoskins,  and LaWare  dissented because they  did

not  want  to provide  System funding for additional  intervention in the

foreign  exchange markets.  They were  uncomfortable with the large

holdings  of  foreign  currencies  now in the  System Account  and  felt that

aggressive  intervention policies  could lead to  sizable additional

increases  in  such holdings.  Messrs. Angell and Hoskins also expressed

concern  that  the  intervention carried out  over  the past year had

undermined the  credibility of the  System's monetary policy by

contributing to  uncertainty concerning the  System's  priority toward

achieving price level  stability.  Mr. Hoskins also believed that

intervention was  ineffective  unless accompanied by changes  in monetary

policy  that  would be  inconsistent with price  stability objectives.  Mr.

LaWare  felt  that  massive  and frequent  operations  tended to reduce  the

effectiveness  of  intervention when the  latter might  otherwise  prove

useful  in countering disorderly conditions in the exchange markets.

Agreement  to "Warehouse" Foreign Currencies

On September  19,  1989,  the  Committee had approved an increase

from $5.0  billion to  $10.0  billion  in the amount  of  eligible  foreign

currencies that  the  System was prepared to  "warehouse"  for the  Treasury

and the  ESF.  Currently, a total  of  $9.0  billion  of  such  currencies was

being warehoused for the  ESF.  The purpose  of the  facility is  to

supplement  as  needed the  resources of  the  Treasury and the ESF  for

financing  their purchases  of  foreign  currencies.  Warehousing involves

spot  purchases  of  foreign currencies  from the Treasury or the  ESF  and

-20-

simultaneous forward  sales  of  the  same  currencies at  the  same  exchange

rates to  the Treasury or  the ESF.  Under a longstanding interpretation

by the  Committee and its  General  Counsel,  warehousing transactions  are

open market  operations in  foreign  currencies that  are  authorized under

the  Federal  Reserve Act.  Warehousing is  included under  paragraphs  1.A

and 1.B  of the  Committee's  "Authorization for  Foreign Currency

Operations" and  its  use  is  referenced under paragraph  3.B  of the

Committee's Foreign Currency Directive.

At  this meeting, the  Committee agreed to accommodate  any

further Treasury  and ESF  requests  for  financing under  the warehousing

facility up  to  a limit  of  $15  billion.

Votes  for  this action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Boehne,  Boykin, Johnson,  Kelley, Ms. Seger,
and Mr. Stern.  Votes  against these  actions:  Messrs.
Angell,  Hoskins,  and LaWare.

Messrs. Angell, Hoskins,  and  LaWare  indicated that  in  light  of

the  significant policy issues  raised by the  duration and  scale  of  the

intervention activity, they were unable to  concur, as  a matter of

policy, with the Committee's decisions  to  increase further  the

authorization for warehousing  foreign currencies.  Messrs. Angell  and

Hoskins  also were  concerned that  substantial  increases in the  authorized

limits  on  holdings  of  foreign currencies  by the  Federal Reserve  System

for  the U.S. Treasury and the  ESF  under the warehousing authority  were

inappropriate  in the  absence of  a definitive  indication of  Congressional

intent  in  this  area.  The  transactions  in  question, which are  repurchase

agreements that  have  the  characteristics of  a loan to the  Treasury,

could be  viewed as  avoiding the  Congressional appropriations process

called  for  under the  Constitution.

