FEDERAL  RESERVE  press release

For  Use at  4:30  p.m. 

November  20,  1992

The Federal  Reserve Board  and the  Federal  Open  Market

Committee today  released the  attached  record  of  policy actions

taken  by the Federal  Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

October  6. 1992.

The  record  for each meeting  of the  Committee  is made

available  a few days after  the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published  in the Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the information that was  available  to  the

Committee  at the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF  POLICY ACTIONS OF  THE

FEDERAL OPEN  MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting  Held  on  October  6. 1992

The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting suggested  that

economic  activity was  expanding at  a subdued  pace.  Domestic  final

sales  appeared to  have  picked  up  in  the  third  quarter,  led  by  an

increase  in  consumer spending  and another  sharp  gain  in  business

purchases  of office  and  computing equipment,  but  demand  had  remained

sluggish  in  most other  sectors  of the  economy.  The  limited  growth  in

overall  demand was  being met  in  part  through higher  imports,  and  as  a

consequence,  industrial  production and  employment  had  been  weak.

Recent  data  on  wages  and prices  continued  to  suggest  that  inflation

was  slowing.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  fell  somewhat  further in

September,  reflecting  a drop  in government  jobs  associated  with the

end  of  a federally funded  summer jobs  program.  Employment  in the

private  sector  was up  in  September,  as  new hiring in  the  services

industry more than  offset job  losses  in manufacturing and

construction;  employment  in other  industries  was  little  changed after

a sizable  decline in August.  The  civilian unemployment  rate  edged

down to  7.5  percent in September  when the  labor  force  registered

another  decrease.

After  a considerable gain in July,  industrial  production

declined appreciably in  August,  and available  information  suggested

further weakness  in September.  The  decline in  industrial  output  since

July  partly  reflected the  disruptive  effects  of  Hurricane Andrew on

oil  and  gas  production and  of  a labor  strike  on  the manufacture of

automobiles  and parts.  However,  output  of  a broad  range  of other

goods  also  was  down.  One area  of  continuing strength was  the

production of business  equipment, notably  office  and  computing

equipment.  The  utilization  of total  industrial  capacity fell  on

balance  over July  and August,  retracing a portion of  the increase that

occurred  over the  first  half of the year.

Real  personal consumption expenditures  were  little  changed

in August  after  increasing appreciably in the  two previous  months;  for

July  and August  combined,  spending was moderately higher than in the

second  quarter.  In August,  outlays  for  services  continued to  rise,

while expenditures  for most major  categories  of  goods  declined.

Housing  starts  climbed in August, with starts  of  single-family homes

reaching their highest  level  since March.  By  contrast,  permit

issuance  and  sales  of  new and  existing homes  edged  lower in  August.

Shipments  of nondefense  capital goods  slowed  considerably in

July and  August, retracing much of the  sharp  gain recorded in June.

Shipments  of office  and  computing equipment  slackened on  balance over

the  two months:  however,  after adjusting  for  ongoing rapid  declines in

prices,  the  underlying upward trend  in demand for  such  equipment

remained  robust.  Recent  data on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense

capital  goods  suggested that  business outlays  for  durable equipment,

particularly for  items  other than computers,  would  grow more slowly

in  coming months.  Outlays  for  nonresidential  construction contracted

again  in August, with steep  decreases  occurring for  commercial and

industrial  structures.  Data on  contracts continued  to  indicate that

spending  for new construction would  remain sluggish  over the months

ahead.

Total business  inventories  rose  somewhat  further in July

following  a large  increase in June.  In  manufacturing, inventory

stocks were little  changed over June and  July but  were up  sharply in

August  as  factory shipments  of  goods  slowed;  as  a result, the  ratio  of

inventories to  shipments  for all  manufacturing rebounded  to  the middle

of  the  range  that  had  prevailed  over  the previous  year.  At  the

wholesale  level,  inventories  were  trimmed  a little  in July  after  a

sizable  rise  in  June,  and the  stocks-to-shipments  ratio  remained

relatively  high.  Retail  trade inventories  expanded  at  a considerable

pace  in  July, but  a rebound  in sales  lowered the  inventory-to-sales

ratio  somewhat  at  most types  of stores.

The nominal  U.S.  merchandise trade deficit  widened somewhat

in  July  from its  average  rate in the  second  quarter.  Imports,

particularly of  capital  goods  and  consumer  goods,  remained on  the

fairly  strong upward path  evident  during the  first  half  of the year.

Exports  increased  by a smaller amount  in July;  exports  of agricultural

products  rose noticeably, but  exports  of nonagricultural  goods  were

about  unchanged from the pace of the  previous three  quarters.  Recent

indicators  of economic  activity  in the  major foreign industrial

countries  suggested a continuation of sluggish  growth  on average  in

those  countries.

Producer  prices  of finished  goods  edged  up in  August  in

association  with a rebound  in  prices  of fresh  fruits and  vegetables.

Abstracting from the volatile food  and  energy components,  the  increase

in  prices  of  other finished  goods  over the  twelve months  ended  in

August  was  considerably  smaller than the  rise over  the  previous

twelve-month period.  At the consumer  level,  prices  of nonfood, non-

energy  items  registered another modest  increase,  and  the  twelve-month

change  in this  measure also was  down  substantially  from a year

earlier.  In  September, a drop in  the  average hourly earnings  of

production or nonsupervisory workers  retraced part  of  a sizable rise

in August.  Over the twelve months  ended in  September, these earnings

grew  at  a significantly  slower rate  than  in  the  preceding twelve-month

period.

At  its  meeting  on August  18,  the  Committee  adopted a

directive that  called  for maintaining the  existing degree  of pressure

on  reserve  positions  and that  included a bias toward possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  the directive  indicated

that  in  the  context of the  Committee's  long-run objectives for  price

stability  and sustainable  economic  growth, and  giving  careful

consideration to  economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,

slightly  greater  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable or  slightly

lesser  reserve restraint  would be  acceptable during  the  intermeeting

period.  The  contemplated  reserve  conditions were  expected to  be

consistent  with  growth in M2  and M3  at  annual rates  of about  2 percent

and  1/2  percent  respectively over the  six-month period  from June

through December.

Open market  operations during the  intermeeting period were

directed  initially toward maintaining the  existing  degree of pressure

on reserve  positions.  In  early  September,  operations were  adjusted to

implement  some easing in reserve pressures.  This  action was taken in

response to  incoming information that  suggested  unexpected

sluggishness  in economic  activity  and  a smaller-than-anticipated

pickup in the  growth  of the broad  monetary aggregates.  Adjustment

plus  seasonal  borrowing  tended to  run  a little  above expected levels

during the intermeeting  interval,  reflecting in part  reserve  short-

falls  that  produced  sharp  increases  in borrowing at  the  end  of two

reserve maintenance periods.  The  reserve  shortfalls along with

quarter-end  pressures contributed  to a somewhat  higher federal  funds

rate  than had been expected following the monetary easing action.

Other  short-term interest  rates  also  declined  somewhat,

while  longer-term  rates were  about  unchanged  since  the  Committee

meeting  on August  18.  Short-term debt markets  reacted to  the

Committee's  easing  action in  early September  and  subsequently to

growing expectations  of further  System easing in  the  context  of

continued  indications of  a sluggish economic  expansion.  Yields  on

intermediate-term  securities  also  fell.  However,  rates  on  long-term

obligations  were little  changed on balance;  the  System's  policy easing

and  generally weak  economic  data  tended to  reduce  bond  yields, but

long-term  debt markets  also  appeared to  reflect  growing  concerns  about

the fiscal  outlook and increased  uncertainty  stemming in part  from

volatility  in the foreign  exchange markets  and policy developments

abroad.

In foreign exchange markets,  the  trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in terms  of the  other G-10 currencies  fluctuated widely  over

the  intermeeting period but  ended  somewhat  higher on balance.  The

dollar weakened  considerably  early in the period  on  disappointing

reports  about the U.S.  economy and  related  expectations  of  Federal

Reserve easing.  In mid-September, the  dollar moved  sharply higher  as

turmoil  in  European currency markets prompted  some  safe-haven buying

of dollars  and resulted  in  interest  rate  reductions  in  Germany.  More

recently, reduced  tensions within the European Monetary System and

heightened  expectations of  further easing by the  Federal Reserve

induced  renewed  declines  in the  dollar.

Expansion  of M2  and M3  resumed  in August,  though at  fairly

slow  rates,  and  limited growth  appeared to  have continued  in

September.  Through  September, both  aggregates  were estimated  to have

grown  at  rates  somewhat below the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established

by the  Committee for the  year.  The  pickup in the  broad  aggregates

seemed to  reflect the  cumulative effects  on demand  deposits  and  liquid

retail  deposits of  declines in market  interest  rates  since mid-year

and  a related drop  in  opportunity costs.  Currency  growth  strengthened

further  in  August  and  September,  evidently owing in  part to  further

foreign  demand.  Bank credit  growth  also picked up  in  both months  in

conjunction with an  upturn in bank loans.

The staff projection prepared for this meeting indicated

that  economic  activity  would expand  at  a slow pace  in  the  current

quarter  and  that  growth would pick up  gradually  in  1993  to  a rate that

would  remain quite  moderate by  past cyclical  standards.  The declines

that  had  occurred in interest  rates  were expected to boost housing

activity to  some extent,  particularly in the  single-family  sector.

Gains  in expenditures  for  equipment were projected  to  be  large  enough

to  raise business  fixed  investment despite sluggish  spending for

nonresidential construction.  As  employment  growth was  restored and

further  improvements  in household balance  sheets  were achieved,

consumer  spending would  strengthen.  The projection  pointed to  some

decline  in  federal  government purchases,  reflecting further  cutbacks

in  defense  expenditures, and weak  spending by  state and  local

governments.  The persisting slack in resource  utilization in this

forecast  was projected to be  associated with additional progress  in

reducing inflation.

In the  Committee discussion of  current  and  prospective

economic  developments, many of the members  expressed disappointment

and  concern about  the sluggish pace  of the expansion, and a number

commented  that the  softening in  several  recent business  indicators

could portend quite  slow economic  growth  over the months  immediately

ahead.  Business  and  consumer sentiment was  relatively depressed and

seemed  to have worsened a bit  further  recently in some  parts  of the

country.  While  further  deterioration  in business  activity  culminating

in  an  economic  downturn  could  not  be  ruled  out,  some of the  very

latest  data  had  a slightly more  positive tone and the members

generally  continued to  view somewhat  stronger  economic  growth as  a

reasonable  prospect  for the year  ahead.  However,  no  important  sector

of  the  economy seemed poised  to  provide much  impetus  to  business

activity,  and the  timing of the acceleration from the presently

sluggish  advance  remained  uncertain.  Nonetheless, declines  over  the

third  quarter  in the  foreign  exchange  value  of the  dollar  and in

domestic  interest  rates--the latter  along the entire maturity

spectrum--suggested improved conditions  for  greater  expansion.

Recently,  these more  favorable  conditions  had been  reflected  in an

upturn  in money  growth  and  bank lending activity.  With regard to  the

outlook for  inflation, the  available  statistics  and anecdotal

information continued to indicate  appreciable progress toward  the

goal  of  price stability.

In the  course  of  the Committee's  discussion, the members

gave  a great  deal  of emphasis to the  uncertainties  that  surrounded  the

economic  outlook,  including potential  developments abroad.  Several

members  commented that  against the background  of  a relatively  weak

expansion, the  recent  volatility in  some  domestic financial  markets

and  in  the  foreign exchange market tended to  underscore  the  risks  of

developments that  could  have  adverse  effects  on the  economy.  Another

key  uncertainty  related to  the ongoing restructuring of business  firms

and of  business and  consumer balance  sheets.  Those  activities  were

continuing  to divert  financial  flows  from spending to  savings  or  debt

reduction,  and  prior experience provided  little  basis  for determining

when such  restructuring might  come  closer to  being  completed  and flows

of  funds  redirected  on balance into more  normal  spending channels.

Nonetheless,  the members drew considerable  encouragement from the

substantial  progress  that  already had  been made by  business  firms  in

improving  their  balance  sheets  and  by many lenders,  notably banking

institutions.  While some  banks  clearly were  continuing to  experience

financial  difficulties, many had  pared their problem assets  and

strengthened their capital  positions.  Moreover,  a growing  number  of

reports  suggested that  banks were intensifying their efforts to  find

creditworthy borrowers,  though when such efforts  might  become  more

general was  another  source of  uncertainty.

Consumer  spending  seemed  to  have been  reasonably well

maintained  in most  parts  of the  country,  including indications  of  some

growth  in  a number of  areas where  overall business  activity  appeared

to  be moving sideways  or  even edging  lower.  At  least  in some  parts  of

the  country, retailers were  expressing moderate  optimism with  regard

to their prospective  sales  during  the  upcoming holiday season.  Even

so,  very  cautious  consumer  attitudes,  associated especially with

concerns  about  employment  prospects,  seemed likely  to  restrain overall

growth  in consumer spending over the next  several months.  Indeed,

barring unanticipated economic developments  leading to  a major

strengthening in employment  opportunities,  continuing  efforts by many

households to  improve their financial  positions  could be expected  in

the  context  of  an already  low saving rate to  limit  the  contribution of

the  consumer  sector to  faster economic  growth for  some  considerable

period.

In their  comments about  developments  in  other key sectors  of

the  economy, members also  cited single-family housing construction as

a source of some  stimulus  in many  regions.  The manufacturing of

related building materials  had exhibited  a corresponding pickup

recently.  Other  construction  activity, notably that  of office

structures,  remained weak, but there  were  reports  of some  improvement

or  continuing growth  in the  construction  of  industrial  facilities  and

public  works  projects  in  some  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  energy

sector,  a firming of  gas  prices was  encouraging  somewhat  greater

production.  On balance,  there  was  little  current  evidence that

construction, other  than  in the  single-family sector,  would  provide

significant  impetus  to the  overall expansion in  the  year ahead.

Likewise,  flagging  demand was  curtailing  the  production  of  aircraft

and  inducing at  least  temporary cutbacks  in  auto  assemblies.  In

addition, the foreign trade  sector was  not  expected to  add

significantly  to demands  on the U.S.  economy despite the  decline in

the  foreign  exchange value  of the  dollar.  While  the  latter  had

fostered large  increases  in tourism from abroad  in a number  of  areas

and  some  domestic  producers  reportedly were  gaining market  share,

recessions  or weak expansion in major  foreign trading nations were

likely to  limit  the  growth  in  foreign demand for  U.S.  goods.

The  fiscal  outlook remained  uncertain.  The  large  federal

deficit  was  still  tending to preclude  the adoption  of spending  or  tax

reduction programs  that  would  increase  fiscal  stimulus,  but  some

members  suggested that  continued  sluggishness  in  the  economy might

well  overcome  current  inhibitions against  new initiatives.  In  any

event,  defense  spending was  on  a clear  downtrend and was  exerting an

adverse  effect on  overall  economic  activity in  many  parts  of the

country.  At  the state  and local  government  levels,  severe fiscal

problems  probably would  continue to  curb  spending and  force  many

jurisdictions to  raise  taxes  so  long as  a relatively weak economy

continued to  hold down  revenues.

With regard  to  the outlook for  inflation, the members were

encouraged  by the further  indications  of a disinflationary  trend in

prices  and  wages,  and  they  saw little  likelihood that  upward  pressures

on  prices  would emerge  over the  next  year or  two  even in  the  context

of  some  pickup  in  the  expansion  of economic  activity.  While  medical,

tuition,  and  some  other  costs were  rising  at  relatively rapid  rates,

members  cited widespread  examples  of very  strong competitive  pressures

in markets  for  goods,  including key agricultural  products,  and  ongoing

efforts  by  firms  to  cut  costs  in the  face of  steady or  even declining

prices  in  the markets  for  their products.  Nonetheless.  business

contacts  still  seemed to  anticipate rising inflation at  some  point

for  the  economy  generally if not  in their  own  industries,  and  long-

term  interest  rates  still  appeared to  embody higher  rates  of

inflation.

In the Committee's  discussion of policy  for the  intermeeting

period  ahead, the members generally  agreed that  current  uncertainties

made  an assessment  of the economic  outlook and the  determination of an

appropriate  course  for monetary policy particularly difficult.  While

the members'  preferences  for  policy implementation  ranged  from the

maintenance of unchanged  reserve  conditions  to  an immediate  easing

move,  a majority indicated that they could  support  a policy

prescription of maintaining unchanged  reserve  conditions for  the

present  while biasing the directive  strongly toward  possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.

Members who  favored an unchanged  policy stance  argued that

despite  the  softness  in  a number  of recent  economic  indicators they

could  see  no  currently persuasive evidence  of a cumulative  deteriora-

tion  in the  economy.  Moreover, earlier monetary policy easing actions

had  provided  a substantial  amount  of  stimulus to the economy that

would continue  to  exert  its effects  over time.  Real  short-term

interest  rates  were  at  very low levels,  and  intermediate-term rates

had  declined  considerably  since mid-year.  The  reductions  in  interest

rates  had  greatly  facilitated the  progress  already achieved  by

business  firms  and  households  in  restructuring their  debts  and

reducing their  debt  service burdens,  thereby strengthening  the

financial  underpinnings of  the  economy.  The  dollar  recently had been

subject  to  considerable volatility in  the  foreign exchange  markets,

and  there  was  some  risk that an  easing of monetary policy  at  this time

might  tend  to destabilize  it.  These members  concluded  that  the

present  stance  of monetary policy  continued to  reflect  an appropriate

balancing  of the need to  sustain progress  toward  price  stability while

encouraging an  acceptable  rate of economic  growth.

Members  who  favored  an  immediate  easing of policy  believed

that  the outlook for  the  economy and prices  argued  for  a policy move

at  this  time.  These  members acknowledged that a good deal  of

uncertainty surrounded  the  economic  outlook.  However,  there were  some

risks  that  an  already sluggish economy might  weaken  further.  In  the

circumstances,  a prompt  easing move would  be a desirable  and prudent

course, particularly in a situation where  they saw  a minimal  risk that

inflation would  be deflected  from its  downward trend.  In the  view of

some  of  these members, continued  expansion in the broad monetary

aggregates  at  rates below the  Committee's ranges  suggested that

financial  conditions were  not yet  conducive  to  a pickup  in  business

activity that was sufficiently robust  to  reduce margins  of

underutilized  resources.  An  easing in monetary policy  seemed to be

widely  anticipated in financial markets,  and  a failure to  take  action

at  this time might well  result  in an undesirable  backup  in market

interest  rates,  thus  further weakening the  outlook.

A majority of the members  noted that  they could  support  an

unchanged directive that  included a decided presumption  of some  easing

if  indications  of stronger  economic  activity  failed  to  emerge  or the

recent  firming in money  and  credit  flows  showed signs  of  ebbing

materially.  It  was  anticipated that  any decision  to  ease  reserve

conditions  during this  period would be  coordinated with the

consideration of a reduction in the discount  rate  by  the Board  of

Governors.  Two members  felt strongly that  a directive  calling for

unchanged  reserve  conditions  should also provide for an  unbiased

intermeeting instruction.  While  such  a directive would  not  rule  out

an  intermeeting  adjustment--in  either  direction--it would  require more

substantial  evidence of  changing or  unexpected economic  or  financial

information before a policy action was implemented.  Several members,

including  some who favored  an immediate  easing of  policy, expressed

some discomfort  about  the  extent  to which the  Committee might  be  seen

as  reacting to  individual pieces  of incoming data  rather than  to  an

accumulation  of  information and  analysis  regarding the  course of the

economy  and  prices.

In the course  of the discussion, members  commented that the

pickup  in the growth  of the broad monetary aggregates  in August  and

September was  a reassuring development,  even though the  rates  of

expansion were  still  quite  sluggish.  According to  a staff  analysis

prepared  for this  meeting, the  growth of both aggregates was likely to

remain quite  limited over the  balance of the year and  to  fall  somewhat

short  of the  lower bounds  of the  Committee's  ranges  for  1992  as  a

whole.  Despite the  lingering effects  of earlier  declines  in  short-

term interest  rates, the projected  expansion of M2  and  especially  that

of M3  would be  expected to  remain below the  growth  of  nominal GDP,  and

the  velocity of these monetary aggregates would  continue to  display

unusual  strength in  comparison with past  patterns.  The  persistence of

slow  growth in the broader aggregates  probably would  involve further

decreases  in  deposit  offering  rates  and  shifts  of  funds  to  higher

yielding alternatives  such  as  bond  and  stock mutual  funds,  with  little

effect  on  consumer  spending  or  overall  economic  activity.  The  members

nonetheless  recognized the  need to  assure  adequate  monetary  expansion

for  a growing  economy  and  noted that money growth  appreciably  below

current  expectations would  be  a matter of increasing concern.  A

differing view focused  on  the  growth of Ml  and reserves,  which had

been very  rapid  since  the  latter  months  of  1991.  In this  view,  the

outsized  growth  in  narrow measures  of  money was  indicative  of  a quite

stimulative  monetary policy, but  given  the  long  lags  that  were

involved, the  inflationary consequences of  such  growth,  if  allowed  to

continue, might  not  become evident  until much later,  perhaps not  until

well  into  1994.

At  the conclusion  of the  Committee's  discussion, a majority

of the members  indicated their  acceptance of a directive that called

for  maintaining the existing degree of  pressure on  reserve positions

and  an understanding that  there would  be  a marked bias  toward  possible

easing  during the intermeeting  period.  Two  of the  members  expressed  a

strong  preference for  a symmetric directive with regard to  possible

intermeeting policy adjustments, while two  others were  firmly

persuaded  of the desirability  of  an  immediate  increase  in  reserve

availability to  strengthen the  growth  of M2.  Accordingly, in  the

context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for  price  stability  and

sustainable  economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration  to

economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,  it was  decided  that

slightly  greater monetary restraint might be  acceptable  or  slightly

lesser monetary restraint  would be  acceptable during the  intermeeting

period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this  meeting were

expected to be  consistent  with  growth in  M2  and M3  at  annual  rates  of

about  2 and  1 percent  respectively over the  three-month period from

September through December.

At  the conclusion of  the meeting, the  following domestic

policy  directive was  issued to the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The information reviewed  at  this meeting suggests
that  economic  activity is  expanding  at  a subdued  pace.
Total  nonfarm payroll  employment declined  somewhat
further  in September,  but the  civilian unemployment
rate  edged down to  7.5 percent.  Industrial production
is estimated to  have declined  appreciably since  July.
Real  personal consumption  expenditures  appear to  have
risen moderately in the third  quarter.  Data  on housing
have  been mixed, but  on balance they  continue  to
suggest  a gradual  uptrend in housing expenditures.
Recent  data  on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense
capital  goods  indicate  slower  growth in outlays  for
business  equipment, while  expenditures  for nonresiden-
tial  construction have been weak.  The nominal U.S.
merchandise trade deficit widened  somewhat  in July from
its  average  rate  in  the  second quarter.  Incoming data
on wages  and  prices  suggest that inflation is  slowing.

Short-term interest  rates  have declined  somewhat,
while longer-term rates  are  about  unchanged  since the
Committee meeting on August  18.  In  foreign exchange
markets, the trade-weighted value  of the  dollar  in
terms of the other  G-10  currencies fluctuated widely
over  the intermeeting  period but  ended the period
higher  on balance.

Expansion  of M2  and  M3  resumed  in August,  though

at  fairly  slow rates,  and  limited  growth  appears  to
have  continued  in September.  Through September both
aggregates were estimated  to have  grown  at  rates
somewhat below the  lower ends  of the ranges  established
by  the  Committee  for the year.

The Federal Open  Market  Committee seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that will foster  price sta-
bility and  promote  sustainable  growth in  output.  In
furtherance of  these objectives, the Committee  at  its
meeting on June 30-July  1 reaffirmed the  ranges  it had
established  in February for  growth of M2  and  M3  of
2-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively,
measured from the fourth  quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth
quarter  of 1992.  The Committee  anticipated that
developments contributing to  unusual velocity increases
could persist  in the  second half of the  year.  The
monitoring range  for  growth of total domestic  non-
financial debt  also was maintained  at  4-1/2  to 8-1/2
percent  for the year.  For  1993,  the  Committee  on a
tentative basis  set the same  ranges  as  in  1992  for

-15-

growth  of  the  monetary aggregates  and debt  measured
from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to the  fourth  quarter
of  1993.  The  behavior  of  the  monetary aggregates  will
continue to  be  evaluated in  the  light  of progress
toward  price  level  stability,  movements  in  their
velocities,  and  developments  in  the  economy and
financial markets.

In  the  implementation  of  policy  for the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks to maintain  the  existing
degree  of pressure  on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price stability  and sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving careful  consideration to  economic,  financial.
and monetary  developments,  slightly  greater  reserve
restraint  might  or  slightly lesser reserve  restraint
would  be acceptable  in the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be
consistent  with  growth  of M2  and M3  over  the  period
from September through  December  at  annual  rates  of
about  2 and  1 percent,  respectively.

Votes  for this  action:  Chairman  Greenspan,

Vice Chairman Corrigan. Messrs. Angell, Hoenig,
Kelley, Mullins.  Ms.  Phillips.  and Mr.  Syron.

Votes against  this action:  Messrs.  Jordan,

LaWare.  Lindsey, and  Melzer.

Messrs.  Jordan and Lindsey preferred immediate action  by

the  Committee to  increase the  availability of bank  reserves

sufficiently to  achieve the  Committee's  pre-announced target  growth

for  M2  in  1992.  Such  reserve  provision would  likely be  associated

with  further declines  in  short-term market  interest  rates.  They

believed that this  policy action  by the  Committee  should be

accompanied by  an  announcement of  reductions  of the  upper  and  lower

limits  of the  range for M2  growth  in  1993.  They felt  that  it was

important  to make  clear  that  near-term action to  increase  M2  expansion

was  not  an  abandonment  of the  long-term  objective  of non-inflationary

monetary growth.

Messrs. LaWare  and Melzer  dissented  because they  did  not

want  to  bias the directive toward  possible easing during the

intermeeting period.  In their view,  a variety of indicators,

-16-

including the  level  of  short-term interest  rates  and  the  growth  of

reserves,  suggested  that monetary policy already was positioned  to

foster  an  expansion  in  economic  activity consistent with  the  economy's

long-run  potential.  Moreover,  further  easing  at  this time  would incur

a substantial  risk of  destabilizing the dollar  in the  foreign exchange

markets.  In  these  circumstances,  they  favored a steady  monetary

policy that was  not  disposed to  react  to near-term weakness  in

economic  data  and that  allowed more time  for the  effects of  earlier

easing  actions to be  felt  in the  economy.  Mr. Melzer  also  expressed

concern that  the progress  already made  toward achieving price

stability might be  jeopardized if very rapid  growth  in M1  were  to

continue.

FEDERAL RESERVE  press release

For  Use  at  4:30  p.m. 

August  21,  1992

The Federal Reserve Board  and  the  Federal Open Market

Committee today  released  the  attached  record  of  policy  actions

taken  by the  Federal  Open  Market  Committee  at  its  meeting on

June  30-July 1, 1992.

The  record  for  each  meeting of  the  Committee  is  made

available  a few  days  after  the  next regularly  scheduled  meeting

and  subsequently  is  published  in the  Federal Reserve  Bulletin

and  the Board's  Annual  Report.  The  summary description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions  contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the  information  that  was  available  to  the

Committee at  the  time  of the  meeting.

Attachment

RECORD  OF  POLICY ACTIONS  OF THE

FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting Held  on  June 30-July  1, 1992

The  information  reviewed  at  this meeting suggested  that

economic  activity was  expanding  at  a moderate pace.  Employment  and

industrial  output  had  continued to  rise,  but  a sizable increase  in  the

labor  force had  lifted  the  unemployment  rate  to  a cyclical high.

Increased  sales  and  production of  motor  vehicles were providing  a

boost  to  the  economy,  as  was  higher  spending for  capital equipment,

especially computers.  However,  non-auto  retail  sales  and  homebuying

had  slowed  since  earlier  in the  year,  and  the  latest data  indicated

some widening of  the merchandise  trade  deficit.  Incoming data  on

retail  prices  and  labor  costs  suggested that  inflation was  slowing.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  increased  for  a fourth

straight  month  in  May,  and  aggregate hours worked by  production  or

nonsupervisory workers  exceeded  the average for  the  first  quarter.

The  services  industry  recorded further  sizable job  gains  in  May, while

employment  in  retail  trade  fell  considerably  and had  changed  little  on

balance thus  far  this  year.  Hiring was  off  slightly  in  manufacturing,

but  further  increases  in  overtime hours  elevated  the  factory workweek

to  a little above  its  average  level  for  the first  half of  1990.  The

civilian unemployment  rate  rose  sharply in  May, to  7.5  percent,

reflecting a surge  in  the  number  of  job  seekers.  Substantial

increases  in  the labor  force  since  late  last  year had  returned the

labor-force  participation rate to  its  average  level  for  the  first  half

of  1990.

Industrial  production rose  appreciably further  in May,

partly  reflecting continued  recovery  in  motor vehicle  assemblies.

Also  contributing to  the rise were  large  increases  in the production

of  other  consumer  durables,  notably household  appliances  and

furniture,  and  of business  equipment.  The  recent  gains  in  production

had  raised the  utilization  of  total  industrial  capacity  considerably,

but  the  average  operating  rate remained  well  below its  July  1990  peak.

After  a surge  early in  the year,  growth  in  real personal

consumption  expenditures had  slowed  despite a strengthening  in the

demand  for motor  vehicles.  In April  and May,  spending  for  goods  other

than  motor  vehicles was  slightly  below the  average  level  for  the  first

quarter,  and  outlays  for  services  increased  only a little.  Purchases

of  new single-family homes  declined  in  May for  a fourth  straight

month.  Starts  of  single-family housing  units  rebounded in  May to  a

level  close  to  the first-quarter  pace,  while multifamily housing

starts  remained  depressed  in  reflection  of  historically high  vacancy

rates  for  such  housing.

Shipments  of  nondefense  capital goods  other  than  aircraft

over  April and  May  were somewhat  above  the first-quarter  level,

boosted  mainly  by  further  increases  for  office  and  computing

equipment.  Business  purchases of  motor  vehicles  also were  stronger.

Recent  data  on  orders  pointed  to  a further pickup  in  business  outlays

for  durable  equipment  over  coming months.  Outlays  for  nonresidential

structures  continued to  trend  lower  in  May, but  incoming  information

on  contracts  for new construction  suggested  that  nonresidential

building activity would decline more  slowly  in  the  months  ahead.

Although construction  of  office buildings  continued  to  plummet  in

response  to  the  substantial  overhang  of  vacant  office  space,  spending

-3-

for  other  nonresidential structures  had firmed  since the fourth

quarter.

Business  inventories  rose  slightly further  in  April.  Stocks

increased  relatively sharply at  the  retail  level,  but  about  half the

buildup was  at  automobile  dealerships, where the  rise  in  inventories

appeared  to  be  about  in  line with  a recent  pickup  in  sales  of  new

vehicles.  In manufacturing, inventories  continued to  decline;  with

factory  shipments  rising, the  ratio  of  stocks  to  shipments  was  at  its

lowest  level  in  more than  a decade.  At  wholesale establishments,

inventories  were  trimmed  substantially further  in  April.  However,

inventory-sales  ratios  remained near  the  high  end of  the  range  that

had  prevailed  over  the  past  several  years.

The  nominal  U.S.  merchandise trade  deficit widened  in  April

and  was  substantially above  its  average rate for  the  first  quarter.

The  value  of  exports  declined,  largely because of  a decline in  exports

of  aircraft.  The  value  of  imports  increased  further  in  April;  a rise

in  imports  of  capital  goods  more  than  offset  a small  decline in

imports  of  consumer  goods.  The  available data  on economic  activity in

the  major  foreign industrial  countries  in  the  second  quarter were

mixed.  In Germany and  Japan,  growth  during the  first  quarter had  been

boosted  by transitory  influences  that  appeared  to be  unwinding in  the

second  quarter.  By contrast,  a moderate  recovery in  economic  activity

was  continuing in  Canada, and  there were  some  indications  that

economic  recovery was  getting under way  in  the United Kingdom.

Producer  prices  of  finished  goods  rose more  rapidly  in  May;

sizable  increases  in  the  prices  of  energy and  other  goods  outweighed  a

further  decline  in  food  prices.  Apart  from anomalous  jumps  in  the

prices  of  a few  items,  however,  increases  in  prices  of  nonfood,  non-

energy  finished  goods  generally remained  modest.  Consumer  prices

posted  a small advance  in  May, despite  a relatively large  rise  in

energy costs.  Excluding food  and  energy items,  consumer  prices

increased more  slowly in  the  first  five months  of  this  year  than  in

1991.  Average hourly earnings  for  production or  nonsupervisory

workers  were  little  changed over  April and  May and  also had  risen more

slowly thus  far  this  year  than  in  1991.

At  its  meeting  on May  19,  the Committee  adopted a directive

that  called  for  maintaining the existing  degree of  pressure  on  reserve

positions  and that  did  not  include  a presumption  about  the likely

direction  of  any adjustments  to  policy  during the  intermeeting period.

Accordingly, the  directive  indicated  that  in  the  context  of  the

Committee's  long-run  objectives  for  price  stability  and  sustainable

economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration to  economic,

financial,  and  monetary developments,  slightly greater  or  slightly

lesser  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable  during the  intermeeting

period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated  under  this  directive were

expected to  be  consistent  with growth  of  M2  and  M3  at  annual rates  of

about  2-1/2  and  1-1/2  percent  respectively over  the  two-month  period

from April  through  June.

Open market  operations  during the  intermeeting period were

directed  toward maintaining the  existing degree  of  pressure  on  reserve

positions.  During the  period,  several technical  increases were  made

to  expected  levels  of  adjustment  plus  seasonal  borrowing to  reflect

the  rising demands  for  seasonal  credit.  Actual  levels  of  borrowing

averaged  about  $165  million  over  the  three  reserve maintenance  periods

completed  during  the  intermeeting  interval.  The  federal  funds  rate

remained  close to  3-3/4  percent.

Most  other  interest  rates  changed  little  on  balance  over  the

intermeeting period.  Rates  moved higher  in  the  days  following  the May

meeting  as  widespread market  expectations  of  a monetary  easing  action

were  not  realized.  Later  in  the  period,  however,  interest  rates  fell,

especially at  intermediate maturities,  as  markets  interpreted  incoming

data  on  the  economy  and  the monetary  aggregates  as  indicating  a

sluggish  recovery.  Broad  indexes  of  stock prices  declined  over  the

period  in  response  to  reductions  in  forecasts  of  corporate  earnings.

In  foreign  exchange  markets,  the trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in terms  of  the  other  G-10  currencies  declined  further  over  the

intermeeting period.  The  dollar  rose  initially in  response  to  data

pointing  to  a somewhat  stronger  economic  recovery  in  the United  States

but  subsequently more  than  retraced its  gains  as  less  positive

economic  data,  including a  larger-than-expected trade deficit,  were

reported.

M2  and  M3  changed  little  in  May  and  appeared  to have

contracted  in  June;  both  retail and  large-denomination  time  deposits

continued  to  run  off  rapidly.  Depository  institutions,  facing weak

loan  demand  and  intent  on  further  bolstering  capital  positions,  had

reduced  rates  on  time  deposits  fairly  aggressively earlier  in  the

year,  and  as  a  result  these  components  of  M2  and  M3  had  become  less

attractive  relative  to  alternative  investments  or  debt  repayment.  In

addition,  Ml  was unusually  weak in  June.  Through  June,  expansion  of

the  two  broad  aggregates  was  somewhat  below the  lower  ends  of  the

ranges  established by  the  Committee for  the  year.  Growth  of

nonfinancial  debt  was  estimated  to be  at  the  lower  end  of  the

Committee's  monitoring  range.  Borrowing  had  been  concentrated  in  the

capital  markets,  with beneficial  effects  in  reducing  debt  and  debt-

servicing burdens.

The staff  projection prepared  for  this  meeting pointed  to  a

modest  pickup  in  economic  growth  over  the  second  half  of  the year  and

-6-

to  some  further  acceleration  in  1993.  The  forecast  took  into  account

the  lagged  effects  on  aggregate demand  of  earlier  declines  in  interest

rates  and  the progress  that had  been  made  by households  and  businesses

in  strengthening their  balance  sheets.  Nonetheless,  financial  strains

were  expected  to  continue  to  prompt  the diversion  of  some  cash  flows

from business  and  consumer  spending,  though  the magnitude  of  such

adjustments  was  projected  to  lessen  over  time.  Partly  as  a

consequence, moderate  growth well  below that  experienced  during

typical  cyclical upswings  in  the  past  was  projected  in  consumer

spending and  in  business  investment  in  durable  equipment.  Economic

expansion  also  would be  restrained  by  further,  though  diminishing,

declines  in  business  spending on  nonresidential structures  before  a

projected  upturn  in  such  spending began  to materialize  in  the  second

half  of  next  year.  Moreover,  in  the  government  sector,  federal

purchases  of  goods  and  services were  forecast  to  decrease  over  the

projection  horizon,  largely  reflecting  cutbacks  in  defense  spending.

At  the  state and  local  government  levels,  continuing budget  problems

were  expected  to  result  in  a  small  decline  in  real  purchases  during

the  quarters  immediately  ahead and  in  only modest  growth  later.  A

persisting  though  decreasing margin  of slack  in  resource utilization

was  expected  to  be  associated  with  further  slowing  in  wage  and  price

inflation.

In  the  Committee's  discussion  of  economic  and  financial

developments  and the  outlook  for  the  economy,  the members  agreed  that

a sustained  expansion  at  a moderate pace  remained  the  most  reasonable

expectation  and  that  such  an  expansion was  likely to  be  associated

with  further  easing of  inflation.  They noted  that  considerable

progress  had been made  in  correcting major  structural  imbalances  and

financial  problems  in  various  sectors  of  the  economy  and that  business

and  consumer  confidence  had  improved appreciably  since  the  turn  of  the

year.  However,  the most  recent  information  suggested  some weakening

in  the  expansion,  and  a number  of  members  expressed  concern  about  the

apparent  absence  of  cumulating  or  self-reinforcing  improvement  in

overall  economic  activity.  Sluggish  growth  of  jobs  and  income,

ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen balance  sheets,  and  in  the  view of a

number  of  members  the weakness  in  broad  measures  of  money and  credit

suggested  that  the  risks  to  the  economy were  more  heavily weighted  to

the  downside.  Others  felt  that  the  expansion was  now more  firmly

entrenched and  that  the risks  were more  evenly balanced;  some  of  these

members  noted,  however,  that  given the  likely restrained  pace  of  the

expansion, a significant  shortfall  from their  current  projections

could  have  more worrisome  effects  than  the  limited  inflationary

pressures  that  might be  fostered  by  a somewhat  stronger-than-projected

economy.  With  regard  to  the  outlook  for  inflation, the members  were

encouraged  by  indications  of  moderating price and  labor  cost

pressures.  Most  believed  that  additional  progress  toward  price

stability  was  likely  over  the  next  several  quarters  in  the  context  of

some  persisting  slack in  labor  and  other  production  resources  and

after  an  extended  period  of  slow  growth  in  key measures  of  money.

In  keeping with  the  practice  at  meetings  when  the Committee

sets  its  long-run  ranges  for  the  money and  debt  aggregates,  the

members  of  the Committee  and  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank presidents not

currently  serving  as  members  provided  specific  projections  of  the

growth  in  nominal  and  real  GDP,  the  rate  of  unemployment,  and  the  rate

of  inflation  for  the years  1992  and  1993.  These projections  took

account  of  the monetary  growth  ranges  that  the Committee  reaffirmed  at

this  meeting for  1992  and  established  on  a tentative  basis  for  1993;

these  ranges  were  expected  to  be  consistent with  the  Committee's  goals

of promoting a  sustained  expansion  in  the  economy and  continued

progress  toward  price  stability.  The  projections  generally  portrayed

an  economy performing  in  line with  these  objectives--that  is,  with

expansion  at  a moderate  pace  over  the next  1-1/2  years  and  inflation

slowing gradually  further.  Forecasts  of  nominal  GDP  converged  on

growth  ranges  of  5-1/4  to  6 percent  for  1992  as  a whole  and  5-1/2  to

6-1/4  percent  for  1993.  With  regard  to  the  rate  of  expansion  in real

GDP,  the  projections  had  a central  tendency  of  2-1/4  to  2-3/4  percent

for  1992  and  of  2-3/4  to  3 percent  for  1993,  implying  a  gradual

acceleration  from the  pace  currently  estimated  for  the  first  half  of

this  year.  The  projected  strengthening  of  the  economy was  associated

with  some  decline  in the  rate  of  civilian unemployment to  a  consensus

range  of  6-1/2  to  7 percent  by  the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  Given  the

moderate  expansion  of  the  economy  and  the  still  relatively  elevated

level  of the  unemployment  rate,  the  rate  of  inflation,  as  measured  by

the  consumer  price  index, was  projected  to  move  somewhat  lower;  the

central  tendency  of  the  range  expected  for  1993  was  2-3/4  to  3-1/4

percent.

Members  observed  that  developments  relating  to  the  financial

condition  of  households  and  businesses were  likely to  continue  to  have

an  important  influence  on  economic  activity  over  the  quarters  ahead.

Widespread  efforts  to  strengthen  balance  sheets  along with conserva-

tive  lending policies  at  financial  intermediaries had  exerted  a

significantly  retarding effect  on  economic  activity  by  diverting cash

flows  from  consumer and  investment  expenditures  or  limiting  the  avail-

ability  of  financing for  current  spending.  However,  while  the  process

of  adjusting balance  sheets  was  still  incomplete  and  was  still

restraining  business  and  consumer  spending,  the  combination  of  greatly

reduced  interest  rates  and  strengthened  balance  sheets  pointed  to

subsiding constraints  on  expenditures  from financial  factors.  At  the

same time,  lending  institutions  now appeared  to  be  in  a better

position  to  accommodate  borrowers.  Indeed,  anecdotal  reports  from

several  parts  of the  country indicated  that many  banking institutions

were  intensifying  their  efforts  to  make  loans,  though  loan  demand

remained  quite  limited.  Members  also  observed that  corporate  cash

flows  and  profits were much  improved.

In  their  review of  economic  conditions  and  business  and

consumer  attitudes  in  different  regions,  members  reported  that  gradual

expansion  characterized  most  parts  of  the  nation, though they  cited

some  significant exceptions  and  also  noted that  on  the whole recent

indicators  pointed to  less  strength than  early  in the year.  Business

and  consumer  sentiment, while  considerably  improved  since  late  last

year,  nonetheless  remained  quite  cautious  and  seemed  vulnerable to

adverse developments.  Consumers were  still  very  concerned  about

employment  opportunities,  while business  executives were  reluctant  to

make  investment  commitments  or  to  build  inventories  in  the  absence  of

firmer  indications  of  a significant  pickup  in  demand.

With  regard  to  developments  in  major  sectors  of  the  economy,

members  generally viewed  some pickup  in  consumer  spending  from its

recently  sluggish pace  as  a likely  development that  in  turn would

provide  ongoing support  to  the  expansion.  An  essential  element  in

sustaining consumer  expenditures,  and  thus  the  economy more  generally,

would be  the  growth  in  job  opportunities  and  personal  incomes.  While

heavy  debt-service  burdens  and  reduced  interest  incomes,  among  other

factors,  continued  to  curb  the  ability or  willingness  of  many

consumers  to  increase their  spending,  some  tentative  indications  of  a

firming trend  in  such  spending  could  be  drawn  from the  signs  of

reviving consumer  confidence  and  anecdotal  reports  suggesting  that

-10-

consumer  spending was  growing  at  least modestly  in  many  areas.  In

particular,  demands  for motor  vehicles had  strengthened,  and the

related  step-up  in  the  production  of  automotive  products had  accounted

for  much  of  the  growth  in  industrial  production  over  recent months.

With  regard to  the  outlook  for housing,  residential  construction had

weakened  in  many parts  of the  country,  though  it  was  holling up  well

in  some  areas.  The  backup  in  mortgage rates  earlier  in  the  year had

reinforced the  more general  cautionary factors  that  had  tended  to

inhibit  overall  spending.  However,  mortgage  rates  had  fallen

substantially  over  the  spring,  and  the members  expected housing

activity  to  pick  up  somewhat  over  the  quarters ahead.

Despite  still  cautious  business  attitudes, moderate  growth

in  overall  business  fixed  investment was  anticipated  over  the  forecast

period.  Spending  could  be buoyed  by  demands  for  business  equipment,

much  of  which probably would  be related  to  efforts  to  modernize

production  facilities  for  competitive  reasons.  Rising  rates  of

capacity utilization  also  could  be  expected  to spur  investment  demand

as  time  went  on.  The  outlook  for  nonresidential  construction was more

negative.  Office  construction  appeared  likely to  remain  severely

depressed for  an  extended period  as  excess  capacity  was absorbed  in

many parts  of  the  country.  On the more  positive  side,  anecdotal

impressions  from several  cities  suggested  that  prices  and  lease terms

of  office  and  other  commercial  structures were tending to  stabilize,

though  the volume  of  actual transactions  remained  quite  limited.

The government  and  foreign  trade  sectors  also  were not  seen

as  likely  to  contribute  significantly  to  the expansion.  The wide-

spread  financial  problems  of  state  and  local  governments  pointed to

quite  limited  growth  in  spending,  even  though  examples  of  sizable

expenditure  programs,  such  as  for  highway  construction  in  some  areas,

-11-

could  be  cited.  At  the federal  level,  defense  spending was  on  a clear

downtrend,  and the  persistence of  large  federal  deficits  argued

against  sizable  new initiatives  for  nondefense  spending.  With regard

to  the  external  sector,  a number  of  members  expressed  the view that

the  outlook for  net  exports  had worsened  despite the weakening  in  the

foreign  exchange  value  of  the  dollar  in  recent  months.  The  growth  in

exports  appeared  to  be  moderating, and  it  was  uncertain at  this  point

to what  extent  economic  expansion  abroad  might  strengthen and  thereby

produce  increased  demand for  U.  S.  goods  and  services.  At  the  same

time,  domestic  expansion in  line  with  the members'  forecasts would  add

to  the  demand  for  imports.

Most  members  anticipated  at  least  a limited  decline  in  the

core  rate  of  inflation  over  the  period through  the  end  of  next year.

In  support  of  this  view, some  members  emphasized the  lagged  effects  of

the  very  restrained  growth  in  money over  a long  period  while others

gave more  weight  to  the  outlook for  continuing if  diminishing  slack  in

labor  and  other  production  inputs.  In  addition,  business  executives

reported  that  strong  competition  still  was  making it  very  difficult

to  raise  prices  and  that  continuing efforts  were  being made  to  improve

operating efficiencies  and  hold  down  costs.  At  the  same  time,  surveys

of  price  expectations  and  conversations with  business contacts

suggested  a view, rooted  partly in  concerns  about  the prospects  for

and  implications  of  further  large  federal  deficits,  that  inflation

ultimately would  return to  the  4 to  5 percent  pace  of  the 1980s.

These  attitudes tended  to  underscore  the  need  for a sound  fiscal

policy that  in  conjunction with  the  continued  implementation  of  an

anti-inflationary monetary  policy would  foster  a reduction  in

inflationary  expectations  and would  facilitate the eventual

achievement  of  price  stability.

-12-

In  keeping with  the  requirements  of  the Full  Employment  and

Balanced  Growth Act  of  1978  (the Humphrey-Hawkins Act),  the  Committee

at  this  meeting  reviewed the  ranges  for  growth  in the monetary  and

debt  aggregates that  it  had  established  in  February  for  1992  and

decided  on  tentative  ranges for  growth  in  those aggregates  in  1993.

The  current  ranges  for  the  period  from the fourth  quarter  of  1991  to

the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  included  expansion  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2

percent  for  M2  and  1 to  5 percent  for  M3.  The monitoring  range for

growth  of  total  domestic nonfinancial debt  had  been  set  at  4-1/2  to

8-1/2  percent.

In  the  course  of  the Committee's  discussion,  all  of  the

members  supported  a proposal  to  retain  the  ranges  established  in

February  for  this  year.  Although  the  rates  of  M2  and  M3  growth  for

the  year through  June were  somewhat  below the  lower  ends  of  the

Committee's  ranges  for  both  aggregates,  this  outcome  had  not  been

associated with  unexpected weakness  in  nominal  spending;  the expansion

in  nominal  GDP  over  the  first  half  of  the year  currently was  estimated

to have  been toward  the upper  end  of  the  central  tendency  of  the

members'  earlier  expectations.  Instead,  velocity had  risen

appreciably--a highly unusual  occurrence  following  a period  of  sharp

declines  in  interest  rates.  Among the developments  helping to  explain

the  weakness  in  money and  the  rise  in  velocity were  a variety  of

business  and  balance  sheet  pressures  that  tended  to  reduce  total

borrowing  and  channel  credit  flows  away  from depository  institutions,

thereby  lessening  the  need  of  those  institutions  to  increase their

monetary liabilities.  At  the  same time,  business  firms  and

households,  in  the  course  of  their  restructuring  activities  and

deleveraging of  their  balance  sheets,  had  found  that  monetary  assets

-13-

had  become  less  attractive  relative to  a variety  of  other  financial

assets  or  debt  repayment.

It  appeared  that  the balance  sheet  adjustments  by  depository

institutions  and  their  customers  that  had contributed  to  velocity

increases were well  under way.  However,  the  factors that  were tending

to  depress broad  money  growth  in  relation to  measures  of  economic  and

price performance were  likely  to  persist,  and  the  extent and  duration

of  deviations  from historic  relationships  were highly uncertain.  In

these  circumstances,  while an  argument  could  be made that  a somewhat

lower  M2  range  might more  readily  encompass  the  rate  of  expansion  in

money  needed  for  a  satisfactory economic  performance  over  the balance

of  the  year,  the selection  of  a different range would  imply  greater

certainty about  emerging  relationships  than was  warranted.  Instead,

the  current  ranges  should be  maintained,  pending  further  developments

and  the  possible  emergence of  a more  settled  outlook  for  money demand.

Some  members  also  commented that  lowering the  ranges  could  be

misconstrued  as  an  intention to  tighten  monetary policy  at  a time  when

relatively  sluggish  growth  in  the  economy and  weakness  in  the monetary

aggregates  argued  for  a  steady policy  course  or  possibly for  some

easing.

At  the  conclusion  of  this  discussion,  the Committee  voted to

reaffirm the  1992  ranges  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent

that  it  had  established  in  February  for  growth  of  M2  and M3,

respectively;  the  Committee  also  decided  to  retain  the  range  of  4-1/2

to  8-1/2  percent  for  growth  of  nonfinancial  debt  in  1992.  The

following  statement  was  approved  for  inclusion  in  the Committee's

domestic  policy  directive:

The Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks

monetary and  financial conditions  that  will foster
price  stability and  promote  sustainable  growth  in
output.  In  furtherance  of  these  objectives, the

-14-

Committee  reaffirmed  at  this  meeting the  ranges  it
had  established  in February  for  growth  of  M2  and M3
of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent,
respectively, measured  from the fourth  quarter  of
1991  to  the fourth  quarter  of  1992.  The  Committee
anticipated  that  developments  contributing to
unusual  velocity  increases  could persist  in the
second  half  of the year.  The monitoring  range  for
growth  of  total  domestic  nonfinancial debt  also  was
maintained  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  the year.

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan,  Angell,  Hoenig,  Jordan, Kelley, LaWare,
Lindsey,  Melzer,  Mullins,  Ms.  Phillips,  and
Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  None.

With  regard to  the  ranges  for  1993  to  be  established  on  a

tentative  basis  at  this meeting,  a majority  of  the members  endorsed  an

extension  of  the  current  ranges  for  another  year,  but  some  believed

that  a  somewhat  lower  range  for  M2  would  be  preferable.  Members  who

wanted  to  retain  the current  ranges  acknowledged  that  a  lower  M2  range

probably would  be  desirable at  some  point to  be  consistent  over  time

with the  Committee's  objective  of  achieving  and  maintaining  reasonable

price stability.  However,  current  uncertainties  with  regard  to  how

soon  and  to what  extent  various  factors  tending to  inhibit  the  growth

in  M2 would  dissipate  argued  for  caution  in  making any  change  to  the

range  now.  A reduction  in  the M2  range  could  be  considered  next

February when  the  Committee meets  to  set  final  ranges  for  money  growth

for  1993,  or  the  range  could  be  lowered  even  sooner  if  new  information

on  the  emerging  relationship  between  the monetary  aggregates  and

nominal  spending allowed  a determination  of  the  appropriate  range  to

be made  with more  confidence.

Members  who  preferred  a somewhat  lower  M2  range  for  1993

acknowledged  that  substantial uncertainties  with  regard  to  an

appropriate  rate  of M2  growth were  likely  to  persist  for  some  time,

but  they felt  that  relatively  subdued  monetary  expansion was  likely  to

-15-

be  consistent with  an  adequate  degree  of  liquidity  and  a satisfactory

economic  performance  next  year.  Lowering  the M2  range  at  this  point

would  extend the  series  of  gradual reductions  in  the ranges  that had

been  implemented  over  the  last  five years  or  so  and  would have  the

important  advantage  of  affirming the  Committee's  commitment  to  price

stability, with  favorable  implications  for  inflationary  expectations

and  in  turn  perhaps  also for  the  strength  and  sustainability  of the

expansion.  A  few members  favoring this  option were  also  of  the view

that  more weight  ought  to  be  placed on M2  as  a  guide to  policy;  this

would have  possible  implications  for  actions  to  boost  M2  growth in

1992  in  addition to  reducing the  range  for  1993  to  promote  long-run

disinflation.  All  of  the  members  agreed  that  regardless  of  the

particulars  of  the  decisions  to  be made  at  this  meeting,  it  was  vital

for  the  Committee to  reaffirm its  commitment  to  the  goal  of  achieving

price  stability.  This  outcome  was the  key contribution  the  Federal

Reserve  could make  toward  facilitating the highest  possible growth  of

the  economy  over  time;  and  maintaining the credibility  of  the  System's

anti-inflationary  effort was  the  best  means  available to  the  Committee

to minimize  disruptions to  the  economy  as  it  was  moving toward  its

potential.

At  the  conclusion  of  this  discussion,  the Committee  approved

provisional  ranges  for  1993  that  were  unchanged  from those for  1992.

The  Committee  voted  to  incorporate the  following  statement  regarding

the  1993  ranges  in  its  domestic  policy  directive:

For  1993,  the  Committee  on  a tentative basis  set

the  same  ranges  as  in  1992  for  growth  of  the monetary
aggregates  and  debt,  measured  from the  fourth  quarter
of  1992  to  the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  The behavior  of
the monetary  aggregates  will  continue  to be  evaluated
in  the  light  of  progress toward  price  level  stability,
movements  in  their  velocities,  and  developments  in  the
economy  and  financial markets.

-16-

Votes  for  this  action:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan,  Angell,  Hoenig, Kelley, LaWare,
Lindsey,  Melzer,  Mullins,  and  Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  Mr.  Jordan

and  Ms.  Phillips.

Mr.  Jordan  and  Ms.  Phillips  dissented  because  they believed

that  a  somewhat  lower  M2  range  for  1993  would  be  more  consistent with

a policy  of  continuing progress  toward  price  stability.  They

recognized  that  the  substantial  uncertainties  surrounding the  outlook

for  M2  growth  and  its  velocity next  year  made  it  very  difficult  to

determine  an  appropriate M2  range,  but  a  lower  range would  be  needed

eventually to  achieve  and  sustain  stable prices.  In  the  interim,  it

was  important  for  the  System and  the  credibility  of  its  anti-

inflationary policy  to  continue  the practice  of  gradually  reducing  the

M2  range  to  be  consistent  with  a noninflationary  target.  They would

have  coupled the  decrease  in  the  range  for  1993  with  actions  to  expand

bank  reserves  immediately with the  objective  of  boosting M2  growth  to

within  its  range for  1992.  Such  a combination  would make  clear  that

the  decrease  in  the  range  for M2  growth  in  1993  did  not  represent  a

monetary  "tightening" in  the  conventional  sense,  but  rather  that  it

was  a step  toward  lasting  reductions  in  inflation.

Turning  to  policy  for  the  intermeeting period  ahead,  the

members  were  divided between  those who  supported  an  unchanged  policy

stance  and  others who  preferred  to  ease.  A majority  indicated,

however,  that  they could  support  an unchanged  directive  that

incorporated  a  bias toward  possible  easing.

Members  who  preferred not  to  change  policy  at  this  point

believed  that  the  economy  was  on  a moderate  growth  path  and  that  in

any  case  the forces  restraining the  expansion  were not  the  result  of

inadequate  liquidity  or  a  restrictive monetary  policy.  While  the

-17-

outlook was  clouded by  unusual forces  acting  on  the  economy,  the

available economic  information  remained  consistent with  continuing

expansion  at  a pace  that  offered favorable  prospects  for  a gradual

reduction  of unemployment  and  abatement  of  inflation.  The  low level

of  real  and  nominal  short-term interest  rates,  the  decline  in  the

dollar,  and  the  rapid  growth  of  reserves  and  narrow money along with

the  expansion  of  bond mutual  funds--which while  not  in  M2  seemed  to

provide  liquidity  at  least  comparable  to  that  of  time  deposits--

suggested that  monetary policy had  been  quite  accommodative.  Some

members who  supported this  view expressed  concern  that  in  the  absence

of  more  definitive indications  of  a softening  economy or  much  greater

weakness  in  the monetary aggregates,  any easing  at  this  point would

tend  to  erode  the  credibility  of  the  Committee's  commitment  to  an

anti-inflationary  policy.  The  result  might well  be  to  put  substantial

and  disruptive  downward  pressure  on  the  dollar  in  foreign  exchange

markets  and  to  arrest  or  reverse the  tendency for  domestic  long-term

interest  rates  to  decline.

Most  of  the members who  preferred  an  immediate  easing of

policy  emphasized  the  risks  of a faltering economy  in  the  period

ahead,  especially given  the  recent  indications  of  some slowing  in  the

expansion and  the  already  considerable  slack in  the  economy.  Their

concerns  were heightened  by the  constraining effects  of  ongoing

structural  adjustments  in  the  economy, the weakness in  various

measures  of  money,  and  the  limited  expansion  in  total credit.  A few

of  these members  focused  on the desirability  of  taking relatively

prompt  action  to  foster  growth  in  the  broad measures  of  money within

the  Committee's  ranges  for  the  year.  Some members  observed that  under

current  circumstances  an  easing action  might have  a relatively  limited

effect  in  stimulating monetary growth  over  the months  ahead,  but  such

-18-

a policy move would  nonetheless tend  to  boost  spending by  reducing  the

costs  of  borrowing.

In  their  discussion, the members took  account  of  a staff

analysis  that  suggested  only modest  growth  in M2  and  virtually  none  in

M3  for  the third  quarter  on  the assumption  of  an unchanged  degree  of

reserve  pressure.  Relatively weak  expansion  in  these broad  measures

of money did  not appear  to have  the usual  implications  for the

economy,  as  evidenced  by  experience over  the  first half  of  the  year.

The  prospects were  for  continuing balance sheet  and  other  adjustments

that would  tend  to  curb  the demand for  money  assets  relative to

spending and  income.  Many members  nonetheless were  concerned  about

the  possible persistence  of  the  recent weakness  in  reserves  and  the

longer-term sluggish behavior  of  broad money,  especially  given the

relatively  subdued pace  of  the  expansion.  While monetary measures

might  well  have  lost  some  of  their  indicator  and  predictive

properties,  continued weakness  in  money  might  still  be  a signal  that

financial  conditions were not  yet  conducive  to  fostering  a sustained

pickup  in  spending.

The varying  policy preferences  expressed by the members were

reflected  in  differing  views  with  regard  to  possible adjustments to

the degree  of  reserve pressure in  the  intermeeting  period  ahead.  All

of the members who  favored  some  immediate  easing in  policy  indicated

that  they  could  support  an  unchanged  directive  that was  tilted  toward

ease,  and  at  least  some  of  these  members anticipated  that  developments

over  the near  term were  likely to trigger  an  adjustment toward  easing.

Most  of  the members who  favored  an  unchanged  policy  stance  at  this

point  also  indicated  that they  could  accept  a bias  toward  ease in  the

directive,  especially  in  light  of  current uncertainties  and the

potential  problems  associated with  any  significant  shortfall  in  the

-19-

expansion  from current  expectations.  Other  members who  preferred  a

steady policy course  believed that  it would  be  premature  for  the

Committee to  signal  any bias  toward  easing,  given the relatively low

probability that  they assigned  to  the potential  need  for  such  a move,

and they believed  that  a return  to an  asymmetric  directive  after  the

move  to  symmetry  at  the May meeting  could  have unfavorable  reper-

cussions  on the  Committee's  credibility.

At  the  conclusion  of the  Committee's  discussion,  all  but  two

of  the  members  indicated that  they favored  or  could  accept  a directive

that  called  for maintaining  the existing  degree  of  pressure  on  reserve

positions  and that  included  a bias  toward  possible  easing during the

intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  in  the  context of  the Committee's

long-run objectives  for  price  stability  and  sustainable  economic

growth,  and  giving  careful consideration  to  economic,  financial, and

monetary developments,  slightly  greater  reserve restraint  might  be

acceptable  or  slightly  lesser  reserve  restraint  would be  acceptable

during  the intermeeting period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated

at  this  meeting were  expected  to  be  consistent with  a resumption  of

growth  in  M2  and  M3  at  annual  rates  of  about  2 percent  and  1/2  percent

respectively  over  the three-month  period  from June  through  September.

At  the  conclusion  of the  meeting the following  domestic

policy  directive was  issued to  the  Federal Reserve  Bank  of  New York:

The information  reviewed  at  this  meeting continues

to  suggest  that  economic  activity  is  expanding  at  a
moderate  pace.  Total nonfarm payroll  employment
increased  somewhat  further in  May, but  a surge  in  job
seekers  led  to  a sizable rise  in  the  civilian unemploy-
ment  rate to  7.5  percent.  Industrial production  rose
appreciably  further in  May,  partly reflecting continued
recovery  in  motor  vehicle  assemblies.  Growth  in
consumer  spending  has  slackened  after  a sharp  advance
earlier  this  year.  Although  sales  of  new homes
declined  in  May,  single-family housing  starts  rebounded
to  a level  close  to  the  first-quarter pace.  Recent
data  on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense  capital
goods  indicate  appreciable  increases  in  outlays  for

-20-

business  equipment,  and the  trend  of building  contracts
points  to  some  slowing  of  the decline  in nonresidential
construction.  The nominal  U.S. merchandise  trade
deficit  increased in  April  and was  substantially above
its  average  rate  in the  first  quarter.  Incoming data
on  retail prices  and  labor  costs  suggest  that  inflation
is  slowing.

Most  interest  rates  have  changed  little  since the

Committee  meeting  on May  19.  In  foreign  exchange
markets,  the trade-weighted  value  of  the  dollar  in
terms  of the  other G-10  currencies  declined  further
over  the  intermeeting period.

M2  and  M3  changed  little  in  May  and  appear  to  have

contracted  in  June;  both  retail and  large-denomination
time deposits  continued  to  run  off  rapidly.  Through
June,  expansion  of the  two aggregates was  somewhat
below  the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established  by the
Committee  for  the year.

The  Federal  Open Market  Committee  seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that will  foster  price  sta-
bility  and  promote  sustainable  growth  in  output.  In
furtherance  of  these  objectives,  the  Committee  re-
affirmed  at  this  meeting the  ranges  it  had established
in  February  for  growth  of  M2  and  M3  of  2-1/2  to  6-1/2
percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively, measured from
the  fourth  quarter  of  1991  to  the fourth  quarter  of
1992.  The Committee  anticipated that  developments  con-
tributing to  unusual velocity  increases  could  persist
in  the  second  half  of  the  year.  The  monitoring  range
for  growth  of  total  domestic  nonfinancial  debt  also  was
maintained  at  4-1/2  to  8-1/2  percent  for  the year.  For
1993,  the  Committee  on  a tentative  basis  set  the  same
ranges  as  in  1992  for  growth  of  the monetary  aggregates
and  debt,  measured  from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to
the  fourth  quarter  of  1993.  The behavior  of  the
monetary  aggregates will  continue  to  be  evaluated  in
the  light  of  progress  toward  price  level  stability,
movements  in  their  velocities,  and  developments  in  the
economy  and  financial  markets.

In  the  implementation of  policy  for  the  immediate

future,  the Committee  seeks  to  maintain the  existing
degree  of  pressure on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price  stability and  sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving  careful  consideration  to  economic,  financial,
and  monetary  developments,  slightly greater  reserve
restraint  might  or  slightly lesser  reserve  restraint
would  be  acceptable  in  the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated  reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be

-21-

consistent  with growth  of M2  and M3  over  the  period
from June  through  September  at  annual  rates  of  about
2 and  1/2  percent,  respectively.

Votes  for  short-run  policy:  Messrs.  Greenspan,

Corrigan, Angell, Hoenig,  Jordan, Kelley, Lindsey,
Mullins,  Ms.  Phillips,  and  Mr.  Syron.

Votes  against  this  action:  Messrs.  LaWare

and  Melzer.

Messrs.  LaWare  and Melzer  dissented  because they  judged  an

asymmetric  directive, with  a bias  toward  easing,  as  being inappro-

priate  at  this  time.  In  their  view, the  current  stance  of  monetary

policy was  not  impeding  an  expansion  consistent  with the  economy's

long-run potential.  In  addition,  a bias  toward  ease,  especially in

the  context  of  the  Committee's  decision  at  the May meeting  to  adopt  a

symmetrical  directive,  suggested  an  excessive  emphasis  on  short-term

economic  developments  that  might  undermine  the credibility of  the

System's  long-run policies.  They were  concerned  that  such  a loss  of

credibility  could  have  adverse  effects  on  the dollar  in  foreign

exchange markets  and  on  long-term interest  rates  in  domestic  markets.

Mr.  Melzer  also  believed that,  if  additional  easing were  undertaken,

a greater  policy  reversal ultimately would be  necessary,  making the

attainment  of  sustainable economic  growth more  difficult  in  the  long

run.

