FEDERAL  RESERVE  press release

For  Use at  4:30  p.m. 

November  20,  1992

The Federal  Reserve Board  and the  Federal  Open  Market

Committee today  released the  attached  record  of  policy actions

taken  by the Federal  Open Market  Committee  at  its meeting on

October  6. 1992.

The  record  for each meeting  of the  Committee  is made

available  a few days after  the next  regularly  scheduled meeting

and  subsequently is  published  in the Federal  Reserve Bulletin

and the Board's Annual  Report.  The  summary  description  of

economic  and  financial  conditions contained  in  each  record  is

based  solely on  the information that was  available  to  the

Committee  at the  time of the meeting.

Attachment

RECORD OF  POLICY ACTIONS OF  THE

FEDERAL OPEN  MARKET COMMITTEE

Meeting  Held  on  October  6. 1992

The  information  reviewed  at  this  meeting suggested  that

economic  activity was  expanding at  a subdued  pace.  Domestic  final

sales  appeared to  have  picked  up  in  the  third  quarter,  led  by  an

increase  in  consumer spending  and another  sharp  gain  in  business

purchases  of office  and  computing equipment,  but  demand  had  remained

sluggish  in  most other  sectors  of the  economy.  The  limited  growth  in

overall  demand was  being met  in  part  through higher  imports,  and  as  a

consequence,  industrial  production and  employment  had  been  weak.

Recent  data  on  wages  and prices  continued  to  suggest  that  inflation

was  slowing.

Total  nonfarm payroll employment  fell  somewhat  further in

September,  reflecting  a drop  in government  jobs  associated  with the

end  of  a federally funded  summer jobs  program.  Employment  in the

private  sector  was up  in  September,  as  new hiring in  the  services

industry more than  offset job  losses  in manufacturing and

construction;  employment  in other  industries  was  little  changed after

a sizable  decline in August.  The  civilian unemployment  rate  edged

down to  7.5  percent in September  when the  labor  force  registered

another  decrease.

After  a considerable gain in July,  industrial  production

declined appreciably in  August,  and available  information  suggested

further weakness  in September.  The  decline in  industrial  output  since

July  partly  reflected the  disruptive  effects  of  Hurricane Andrew on

oil  and  gas  production and  of  a labor  strike  on  the manufacture of

automobiles  and parts.  However,  output  of  a broad  range  of other

goods  also  was  down.  One area  of  continuing strength was  the

production of business  equipment, notably  office  and  computing

equipment.  The  utilization  of total  industrial  capacity fell  on

balance  over July  and August,  retracing a portion of  the increase that

occurred  over the  first  half of the year.

Real  personal consumption expenditures  were  little  changed

in August  after  increasing appreciably in the  two previous  months;  for

July  and August  combined,  spending was moderately higher than in the

second  quarter.  In August,  outlays  for  services  continued to  rise,

while expenditures  for most major  categories  of  goods  declined.

Housing  starts  climbed in August, with starts  of  single-family homes

reaching their highest  level  since March.  By  contrast,  permit

issuance  and  sales  of  new and  existing homes  edged  lower in  August.

Shipments  of nondefense  capital goods  slowed  considerably in

July and  August, retracing much of the  sharp  gain recorded in June.

Shipments  of office  and  computing equipment  slackened on  balance over

the  two months:  however,  after adjusting  for  ongoing rapid  declines in

prices,  the  underlying upward trend  in demand for  such  equipment

remained  robust.  Recent  data on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense

capital  goods  suggested that  business outlays  for  durable equipment,

particularly for  items  other than computers,  would  grow more slowly

in  coming months.  Outlays  for  nonresidential  construction contracted

again  in August, with steep  decreases  occurring for  commercial and

industrial  structures.  Data on  contracts continued  to  indicate that

spending  for new construction would  remain sluggish  over the months

ahead.

Total business  inventories  rose  somewhat  further in July

following  a large  increase in June.  In  manufacturing, inventory

stocks were little  changed over June and  July but  were up  sharply in

August  as  factory shipments  of  goods  slowed;  as  a result, the  ratio  of

inventories to  shipments  for all  manufacturing rebounded  to  the middle

of  the  range  that  had  prevailed  over  the previous  year.  At  the

wholesale  level,  inventories  were  trimmed  a little  in July  after  a

sizable  rise  in  June,  and the  stocks-to-shipments  ratio  remained

relatively  high.  Retail  trade inventories  expanded  at  a considerable

pace  in  July, but  a rebound  in sales  lowered the  inventory-to-sales

ratio  somewhat  at  most types  of stores.

The nominal  U.S.  merchandise trade deficit  widened somewhat

in  July  from its  average  rate in the  second  quarter.  Imports,

particularly of  capital  goods  and  consumer  goods,  remained on  the

fairly  strong upward path  evident  during the  first  half  of the year.

Exports  increased  by a smaller amount  in July;  exports  of agricultural

products  rose noticeably, but  exports  of nonagricultural  goods  were

about  unchanged from the pace of the  previous three  quarters.  Recent

indicators  of economic  activity  in the  major foreign industrial

countries  suggested a continuation of sluggish  growth  on average  in

those  countries.

Producer  prices  of finished  goods  edged  up in  August  in

association  with a rebound  in  prices  of fresh  fruits and  vegetables.

Abstracting from the volatile food  and  energy components,  the  increase

in  prices  of  other finished  goods  over the  twelve months  ended  in

August  was  considerably  smaller than the  rise over  the  previous

twelve-month period.  At the consumer  level,  prices  of nonfood, non-

energy  items  registered another modest  increase,  and  the  twelve-month

change  in this  measure also was  down  substantially  from a year

earlier.  In  September, a drop in  the  average hourly earnings  of

production or nonsupervisory workers  retraced part  of  a sizable rise

in August.  Over the twelve months  ended in  September, these earnings

grew  at  a significantly  slower rate  than  in  the  preceding twelve-month

period.

At  its  meeting  on August  18,  the  Committee  adopted a

directive that  called  for maintaining the  existing degree  of pressure

on  reserve  positions  and that  included a bias toward possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.  Accordingly,  the directive  indicated

that  in  the  context of the  Committee's  long-run objectives for  price

stability  and sustainable  economic  growth, and  giving  careful

consideration to  economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,

slightly  greater  reserve  restraint might  be  acceptable or  slightly

lesser  reserve restraint  would be  acceptable during  the  intermeeting

period.  The  contemplated  reserve  conditions were  expected to  be

consistent  with  growth in M2  and M3  at  annual rates  of about  2 percent

and  1/2  percent  respectively over the  six-month period  from June

through December.

Open market  operations during the  intermeeting period were

directed  initially toward maintaining the  existing  degree of pressure

on reserve  positions.  In  early  September,  operations were  adjusted to

implement  some easing in reserve pressures.  This  action was taken in

response to  incoming information that  suggested  unexpected

sluggishness  in economic  activity  and  a smaller-than-anticipated

pickup in the  growth  of the broad  monetary aggregates.  Adjustment

plus  seasonal  borrowing  tended to  run  a little  above expected levels

during the intermeeting  interval,  reflecting in part  reserve  short-

falls  that  produced  sharp  increases  in borrowing at  the  end  of two

reserve maintenance periods.  The  reserve  shortfalls along with

quarter-end  pressures contributed  to a somewhat  higher federal  funds

rate  than had been expected following the monetary easing action.

Other  short-term interest  rates  also  declined  somewhat,

while  longer-term  rates were  about  unchanged  since  the  Committee

meeting  on August  18.  Short-term debt markets  reacted to  the

Committee's  easing  action in  early September  and  subsequently to

growing expectations  of further  System easing in  the  context  of

continued  indications of  a sluggish economic  expansion.  Yields  on

intermediate-term  securities  also  fell.  However,  rates  on  long-term

obligations  were little  changed on balance;  the  System's  policy easing

and  generally weak  economic  data  tended to  reduce  bond  yields, but

long-term  debt markets  also  appeared to  reflect  growing  concerns  about

the fiscal  outlook and increased  uncertainty  stemming in part  from

volatility  in the foreign  exchange markets  and policy developments

abroad.

In foreign exchange markets,  the  trade-weighted value  of  the

dollar  in terms  of the  other G-10 currencies  fluctuated widely  over

the  intermeeting period but  ended  somewhat  higher on balance.  The

dollar weakened  considerably  early in the period  on  disappointing

reports  about the U.S.  economy and  related  expectations  of  Federal

Reserve easing.  In mid-September, the  dollar moved  sharply higher  as

turmoil  in  European currency markets prompted  some  safe-haven buying

of dollars  and resulted  in  interest  rate  reductions  in  Germany.  More

recently, reduced  tensions within the European Monetary System and

heightened  expectations of  further easing by the  Federal Reserve

induced  renewed  declines  in the  dollar.

Expansion  of M2  and M3  resumed  in August,  though at  fairly

slow  rates,  and  limited growth  appeared to  have continued  in

September.  Through  September, both  aggregates  were estimated  to have

grown  at  rates  somewhat below the  lower  ends  of the  ranges  established

by the  Committee for the  year.  The  pickup in the  broad  aggregates

seemed to  reflect the  cumulative effects  on demand  deposits  and  liquid

retail  deposits of  declines in market  interest  rates  since mid-year

and  a related drop  in  opportunity costs.  Currency  growth  strengthened

further  in  August  and  September,  evidently owing in  part to  further

foreign  demand.  Bank credit  growth  also picked up  in  both months  in

conjunction with an  upturn in bank loans.

The staff projection prepared for this meeting indicated

that  economic  activity  would expand  at  a slow pace  in  the  current

quarter  and  that  growth would pick up  gradually  in  1993  to  a rate that

would  remain quite  moderate by  past cyclical  standards.  The declines

that  had  occurred in interest  rates  were expected to boost housing

activity to  some extent,  particularly in the  single-family  sector.

Gains  in expenditures  for  equipment were projected  to  be  large  enough

to  raise business  fixed  investment despite sluggish  spending for

nonresidential construction.  As  employment  growth was  restored and

further  improvements  in household balance  sheets  were achieved,

consumer  spending would  strengthen.  The projection  pointed to  some

decline  in  federal  government purchases,  reflecting further  cutbacks

in  defense  expenditures, and weak  spending by  state and  local

governments.  The persisting slack in resource  utilization in this

forecast  was projected to be  associated with additional progress  in

reducing inflation.

In the  Committee discussion of  current  and  prospective

economic  developments, many of the members  expressed disappointment

and  concern about  the sluggish pace  of the expansion, and a number

commented  that the  softening in  several  recent business  indicators

could portend quite  slow economic  growth  over the months  immediately

ahead.  Business  and  consumer sentiment was  relatively depressed and

seemed  to have worsened a bit  further  recently in some  parts  of the

country.  While  further  deterioration  in business  activity  culminating

in  an  economic  downturn  could  not  be  ruled  out,  some of the  very

latest  data  had  a slightly more  positive tone and the members

generally  continued to  view somewhat  stronger  economic  growth as  a

reasonable  prospect  for the year  ahead.  However,  no  important  sector

of  the  economy seemed poised  to  provide much  impetus  to  business

activity,  and the  timing of the acceleration from the presently

sluggish  advance  remained  uncertain.  Nonetheless, declines  over  the

third  quarter  in the  foreign  exchange  value  of the  dollar  and in

domestic  interest  rates--the latter  along the entire maturity

spectrum--suggested improved conditions  for  greater  expansion.

Recently,  these more  favorable  conditions  had been  reflected  in an

upturn  in money  growth  and  bank lending activity.  With regard to  the

outlook for  inflation, the  available  statistics  and anecdotal

information continued to indicate  appreciable progress toward  the

goal  of  price stability.

In the  course  of  the Committee's  discussion, the members

gave  a great  deal  of emphasis to the  uncertainties  that  surrounded  the

economic  outlook,  including potential  developments abroad.  Several

members  commented that  against the background  of  a relatively  weak

expansion, the  recent  volatility in  some  domestic financial  markets

and  in  the  foreign exchange market tended to  underscore  the  risks  of

developments that  could  have  adverse  effects  on the  economy.  Another

key  uncertainty  related to  the ongoing restructuring of business  firms

and of  business and  consumer balance  sheets.  Those  activities  were

continuing  to divert  financial  flows  from spending to  savings  or  debt

reduction,  and  prior experience provided  little  basis  for determining

when such  restructuring might  come  closer to  being  completed  and flows

of  funds  redirected  on balance into more  normal  spending channels.

Nonetheless,  the members drew considerable  encouragement from the

substantial  progress  that  already had  been made by  business  firms  in

improving  their  balance  sheets  and  by many lenders,  notably banking

institutions.  While some  banks  clearly were  continuing to  experience

financial  difficulties, many had  pared their problem assets  and

strengthened their capital  positions.  Moreover,  a growing  number  of

reports  suggested that  banks were intensifying their efforts to  find

creditworthy borrowers,  though when such efforts  might  become  more

general was  another  source of  uncertainty.

Consumer  spending  seemed  to  have been  reasonably well

maintained  in most  parts  of the  country,  including indications  of  some

growth  in  a number of  areas where  overall business  activity  appeared

to  be moving sideways  or  even edging  lower.  At  least  in some  parts  of

the  country, retailers were  expressing moderate  optimism with  regard

to their prospective  sales  during  the  upcoming holiday season.  Even

so,  very  cautious  consumer  attitudes,  associated especially with

concerns  about  employment  prospects,  seemed likely  to  restrain overall

growth  in consumer spending over the next  several months.  Indeed,

barring unanticipated economic developments  leading to  a major

strengthening in employment  opportunities,  continuing  efforts by many

households to  improve their financial  positions  could be expected  in

the  context  of  an already  low saving rate to  limit  the  contribution of

the  consumer  sector to  faster economic  growth for  some  considerable

period.

In their  comments about  developments  in  other key sectors  of

the  economy, members also  cited single-family housing construction as

a source of some  stimulus  in many  regions.  The manufacturing of

related building materials  had exhibited  a corresponding pickup

recently.  Other  construction  activity, notably that  of office

structures,  remained weak, but there  were  reports  of some  improvement

or  continuing growth  in the  construction  of  industrial  facilities  and

public  works  projects  in  some  parts  of  the  country.  In  the  energy

sector,  a firming of  gas  prices was  encouraging  somewhat  greater

production.  On balance,  there  was  little  current  evidence that

construction, other  than  in the  single-family sector,  would  provide

significant  impetus  to the  overall expansion in  the  year ahead.

Likewise,  flagging  demand was  curtailing  the  production  of  aircraft

and  inducing at  least  temporary cutbacks  in  auto  assemblies.  In

addition, the foreign trade  sector was  not  expected to  add

significantly  to demands  on the U.S.  economy despite the  decline in

the  foreign  exchange value  of the  dollar.  While  the  latter  had

fostered large  increases  in tourism from abroad  in a number  of  areas

and  some  domestic  producers  reportedly were  gaining market  share,

recessions  or weak expansion in major  foreign trading nations were

likely to  limit  the  growth  in  foreign demand for  U.S.  goods.

The  fiscal  outlook remained  uncertain.  The  large  federal

deficit  was  still  tending to preclude  the adoption  of spending  or  tax

reduction programs  that  would  increase  fiscal  stimulus,  but  some

members  suggested that  continued  sluggishness  in  the  economy might

well  overcome  current  inhibitions against  new initiatives.  In  any

event,  defense  spending was  on  a clear  downtrend and was  exerting an

adverse  effect on  overall  economic  activity in  many  parts  of the

country.  At  the state  and local  government  levels,  severe fiscal

problems  probably would  continue to  curb  spending and  force  many

jurisdictions to  raise  taxes  so  long as  a relatively weak economy

continued to  hold down  revenues.

With regard  to  the outlook for  inflation, the members were

encouraged  by the further  indications  of a disinflationary  trend in

prices  and  wages,  and  they  saw little  likelihood that  upward  pressures

on  prices  would emerge  over the  next  year or  two  even in  the  context

of  some  pickup  in  the  expansion  of economic  activity.  While  medical,

tuition,  and  some  other  costs were  rising  at  relatively rapid  rates,

members  cited widespread  examples  of very  strong competitive  pressures

in markets  for  goods,  including key agricultural  products,  and  ongoing

efforts  by  firms  to  cut  costs  in the  face of  steady or  even declining

prices  in  the markets  for  their products.  Nonetheless.  business

contacts  still  seemed to  anticipate rising inflation at  some  point

for  the  economy  generally if not  in their  own  industries,  and  long-

term  interest  rates  still  appeared to  embody higher  rates  of

inflation.

In the Committee's  discussion of policy  for the  intermeeting

period  ahead, the members generally  agreed that  current  uncertainties

made  an assessment  of the economic  outlook and the  determination of an

appropriate  course  for monetary policy particularly difficult.  While

the members'  preferences  for  policy implementation  ranged  from the

maintenance of unchanged  reserve  conditions  to  an immediate  easing

move,  a majority indicated that they could  support  a policy

prescription of maintaining unchanged  reserve  conditions for  the

present  while biasing the directive  strongly toward  possible  easing

during the  intermeeting period.

Members who  favored an unchanged  policy stance  argued that

despite  the  softness  in  a number  of recent  economic  indicators they

could  see  no  currently persuasive evidence  of a cumulative  deteriora-

tion  in the  economy.  Moreover, earlier monetary policy easing actions

had  provided  a substantial  amount  of  stimulus to the economy that

would continue  to  exert  its effects  over time.  Real  short-term

interest  rates  were  at  very low levels,  and  intermediate-term rates

had  declined  considerably  since mid-year.  The  reductions  in  interest

rates  had  greatly  facilitated the  progress  already achieved  by

business  firms  and  households  in  restructuring their  debts  and

reducing their  debt  service burdens,  thereby strengthening  the

financial  underpinnings of  the  economy.  The  dollar  recently had been

subject  to  considerable volatility in  the  foreign exchange  markets,

and  there  was  some  risk that an  easing of monetary policy  at  this time

might  tend  to destabilize  it.  These members  concluded  that  the

present  stance  of monetary policy  continued to  reflect  an appropriate

balancing  of the need to  sustain progress  toward  price  stability while

encouraging an  acceptable  rate of economic  growth.

Members  who  favored  an  immediate  easing of policy  believed

that  the outlook for  the  economy and prices  argued  for  a policy move

at  this  time.  These  members acknowledged that a good deal  of

uncertainty surrounded  the  economic  outlook.  However,  there were  some

risks  that  an  already sluggish economy might  weaken  further.  In  the

circumstances,  a prompt  easing move would  be a desirable  and prudent

course, particularly in a situation where  they saw  a minimal  risk that

inflation would  be deflected  from its  downward trend.  In the  view of

some  of  these members, continued  expansion in the broad monetary

aggregates  at  rates below the  Committee's ranges  suggested that

financial  conditions were  not yet  conducive  to  a pickup  in  business

activity that was sufficiently robust  to  reduce margins  of

underutilized  resources.  An  easing in monetary policy  seemed to be

widely  anticipated in financial markets,  and  a failure to  take  action

at  this time might well  result  in an undesirable  backup  in market

interest  rates,  thus  further weakening the  outlook.

A majority of the members  noted that  they could  support  an

unchanged directive that  included a decided presumption  of some  easing

if  indications  of stronger  economic  activity  failed  to  emerge  or the

recent  firming in money  and  credit  flows  showed signs  of  ebbing

materially.  It  was  anticipated that  any decision  to  ease  reserve

conditions  during this  period would be  coordinated with the

consideration of a reduction in the discount  rate  by  the Board  of

Governors.  Two members  felt strongly that  a directive  calling for

unchanged  reserve  conditions  should also provide for an  unbiased

intermeeting instruction.  While  such  a directive would  not  rule  out

an  intermeeting  adjustment--in  either  direction--it would  require more

substantial  evidence of  changing or  unexpected economic  or  financial

information before a policy action was implemented.  Several members,

including  some who favored  an immediate  easing of  policy, expressed

some discomfort  about  the  extent  to which the  Committee might  be  seen

as  reacting to  individual pieces  of incoming data  rather than  to  an

accumulation  of  information and  analysis  regarding the  course of the

economy  and  prices.

In the course  of the discussion, members  commented that the

pickup  in the growth  of the broad monetary aggregates  in August  and

September was  a reassuring development,  even though the  rates  of

expansion were  still  quite  sluggish.  According to  a staff  analysis

prepared  for this  meeting, the  growth of both aggregates was likely to

remain quite  limited over the  balance of the year and  to  fall  somewhat

short  of the  lower bounds  of the  Committee's  ranges  for  1992  as  a

whole.  Despite the  lingering effects  of earlier  declines  in  short-

term interest  rates, the projected  expansion of M2  and  especially  that

of M3  would be  expected to  remain below the  growth  of  nominal GDP,  and

the  velocity of these monetary aggregates would  continue to  display

unusual  strength in  comparison with past  patterns.  The  persistence of

slow  growth in the broader aggregates  probably would  involve further

decreases  in  deposit  offering  rates  and  shifts  of  funds  to  higher

yielding alternatives  such  as  bond  and  stock mutual  funds,  with  little

effect  on  consumer  spending  or  overall  economic  activity.  The  members

nonetheless  recognized the  need to  assure  adequate  monetary  expansion

for  a growing  economy  and  noted that money growth  appreciably  below

current  expectations would  be  a matter of increasing concern.  A

differing view focused  on  the  growth of Ml  and reserves,  which had

been very  rapid  since  the  latter  months  of  1991.  In this  view,  the

outsized  growth  in  narrow measures  of  money was  indicative  of  a quite

stimulative  monetary policy, but  given  the  long  lags  that  were

involved, the  inflationary consequences of  such  growth,  if  allowed  to

continue, might  not  become evident  until much later,  perhaps not  until

well  into  1994.

At  the conclusion  of the  Committee's  discussion, a majority

of the members  indicated their  acceptance of a directive that called

for  maintaining the existing degree of  pressure on  reserve positions

and  an understanding that  there would  be  a marked bias  toward  possible

easing  during the intermeeting  period.  Two  of the  members  expressed  a

strong  preference for  a symmetric directive with regard to  possible

intermeeting policy adjustments, while two  others were  firmly

persuaded  of the desirability  of  an  immediate  increase  in  reserve

availability to  strengthen the  growth  of M2.  Accordingly, in  the

context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for  price  stability  and

sustainable  economic  growth,  and  giving careful  consideration  to

economic,  financial,  and monetary developments,  it was  decided  that

slightly  greater monetary restraint might be  acceptable  or  slightly

lesser monetary restraint  would be  acceptable during the  intermeeting

period.  The  reserve  conditions  contemplated at  this  meeting were

expected to be  consistent  with  growth in  M2  and M3  at  annual  rates  of

about  2 and  1 percent  respectively over the  three-month period from

September through December.

At  the conclusion of  the meeting, the  following domestic

policy  directive was  issued to the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York:

The information reviewed  at  this meeting suggests
that  economic  activity is  expanding  at  a subdued  pace.
Total  nonfarm payroll  employment declined  somewhat
further  in September,  but the  civilian unemployment
rate  edged down to  7.5 percent.  Industrial production
is estimated to  have declined  appreciably since  July.
Real  personal consumption  expenditures  appear to  have
risen moderately in the third  quarter.  Data  on housing
have  been mixed, but  on balance they  continue  to
suggest  a gradual  uptrend in housing expenditures.
Recent  data  on  orders  and  shipments  of nondefense
capital  goods  indicate  slower  growth in outlays  for
business  equipment, while  expenditures  for nonresiden-
tial  construction have been weak.  The nominal U.S.
merchandise trade deficit widened  somewhat  in July from
its  average  rate  in  the  second quarter.  Incoming data
on wages  and  prices  suggest that inflation is  slowing.

Short-term interest  rates  have declined  somewhat,
while longer-term rates  are  about  unchanged  since the
Committee meeting on August  18.  In  foreign exchange
markets, the trade-weighted value  of the  dollar  in
terms of the other  G-10  currencies fluctuated widely
over  the intermeeting  period but  ended the period
higher  on balance.

Expansion  of M2  and  M3  resumed  in August,  though

at  fairly  slow rates,  and  limited  growth  appears  to
have  continued  in September.  Through September both
aggregates were estimated  to have  grown  at  rates
somewhat below the  lower ends  of the ranges  established
by  the  Committee  for the year.

The Federal Open  Market  Committee seeks  monetary

and  financial  conditions that will foster  price sta-
bility and  promote  sustainable  growth in  output.  In
furtherance of  these objectives, the Committee  at  its
meeting on June 30-July  1 reaffirmed the  ranges  it had
established  in February for  growth of M2  and  M3  of
2-1/2 to  6-1/2  percent  and  1 to  5 percent  respectively,
measured from the fourth  quarter  of  1991  to the  fourth
quarter  of 1992.  The Committee  anticipated that
developments contributing to  unusual velocity increases
could persist  in the  second half of the  year.  The
monitoring range  for  growth of total domestic  non-
financial debt  also was maintained  at  4-1/2  to 8-1/2
percent  for the year.  For  1993,  the  Committee  on a
tentative basis  set the same  ranges  as  in  1992  for

-15-

growth  of  the  monetary aggregates  and debt  measured
from the  fourth  quarter  of  1992  to the  fourth  quarter
of  1993.  The  behavior  of  the  monetary aggregates  will
continue to  be  evaluated in  the  light  of progress
toward  price  level  stability,  movements  in  their
velocities,  and  developments  in  the  economy and
financial markets.

In  the  implementation  of  policy  for the  immediate

future,  the  Committee  seeks to maintain  the  existing
degree  of pressure  on  reserve  positions.  In  the
context  of  the  Committee's  long-run  objectives  for
price stability  and sustainable  economic  growth,  and
giving careful  consideration to  economic,  financial.
and monetary  developments,  slightly  greater  reserve
restraint  might  or  slightly lesser reserve  restraint
would  be acceptable  in the  intermeeting period.  The
contemplated reserve  conditions  are  expected  to  be
consistent  with  growth  of M2  and M3  over  the  period
from September through  December  at  annual  rates  of
about  2 and  1 percent,  respectively.

Votes  for this  action:  Chairman  Greenspan,

Vice Chairman Corrigan. Messrs. Angell, Hoenig,
Kelley, Mullins.  Ms.  Phillips.  and Mr.  Syron.

Votes against  this action:  Messrs.  Jordan,

LaWare.  Lindsey, and  Melzer.

Messrs.  Jordan and Lindsey preferred immediate action  by

the  Committee to  increase the  availability of bank  reserves

sufficiently to  achieve the  Committee's  pre-announced target  growth

for  M2  in  1992.  Such  reserve  provision would  likely be  associated

with  further declines  in  short-term market  interest  rates.  They

believed that this  policy action  by the  Committee  should be

accompanied by  an  announcement of  reductions  of the  upper  and  lower

limits  of the  range for M2  growth  in  1993.  They felt  that  it was

important  to make  clear  that  near-term action to  increase  M2  expansion

was  not  an  abandonment  of the  long-term  objective  of non-inflationary

monetary growth.

Messrs. LaWare  and Melzer  dissented  because they  did  not

want  to  bias the directive toward  possible easing during the

intermeeting period.  In their view,  a variety of indicators,

-16-

including the  level  of  short-term interest  rates  and  the  growth  of

reserves,  suggested  that monetary policy already was positioned  to

foster  an  expansion  in  economic  activity consistent with  the  economy's

long-run  potential.  Moreover,  further  easing  at  this time  would incur

a substantial  risk of  destabilizing the dollar  in the  foreign exchange

markets.  In  these  circumstances,  they  favored a steady  monetary

policy that was  not  disposed to  react  to near-term weakness  in

economic  data  and that  allowed more time  for the  effects of  earlier

easing  actions to be  felt  in the  economy.  Mr. Melzer  also  expressed

concern that  the progress  already made  toward achieving price

stability might be  jeopardized if very rapid  growth  in M1  were  to

continue.

